the tax base is a community workshop. there's lots them all over the world nassim is probably one of the biggest if not the biggest in the uk this we have a whole load of tools that people can use for their hobbies or even be even businesses is the sort of thing that you perhaps couldn't have to afford to have in your garage or don't have the space for that but this is some week you can join and get access to those sort of facilities we're totally run by members. we don't have any members of staff so it's all run by volunteers and we rely on their membership fees for buying new tools and equipment and stuff we've run various workshops here or all sorts things up some summer craft related jewelry related but quite a lot of computer related workshops we've had raspy pye workshops. i actually run the arduino which are some long with another maxxbass member there's a really good for people just sort of get over the initial hurdle of getting started with the arduino so, you know if you buy an arduino board, it's often. there's the certain hurdle you need to get over to get started. we come to one of our workshops we've got a brain wall planned out where you don't have to have any previous knowledge of programming or electronics and we'll get you started with that get started flashing the ideas most electronics projects the software project so involve embedded circuits start with and then we work through the various bits of programming circuits do to controlling speed of the motor with something called pulse width modulation people at the hack space have helped us out with videos our very first computer file video was a defender clone that michael has made the vending machine rob miles is obviously an active member of the hack space and he's done a lot of videos here james has done some things on the arduino first spencer has done some well, we've got about 640 numbers i'm sure you got many more you could fill there as we go from one around i think the building were in was actually an old lace building but it's now lots little businesses in here lots of band practice rooms for the month with the noise as we go past certain areas, this is the main interest not in that space and we've got rfid cards for getting in so after you come through the street door put your car in front of here we've got halloween and then the door is unlocked we can get in so welcome to not a compact space that's all based on arduino and behind the scenes. there's some code and obviously mysql database with all the all the details of the rfid cards we have a quite active software team lee so behind the scenes that have run writing one of our membership system and we're currently running a hs h ms. one system. hex based management system one they're working on version two at the moment rewriting at all in php there laravel framework. this is what we call our comfy area over this side we've got a museum of outdated technology. so we've got a commodore pet up there i think that's been in the background in your video it probably has it probably has we've got quite a few members who are interesting retrocomputing so you're probably a separate video on and then at some stage sometime. we're trying to raise a few more funds for moving into our new area downstairs we had some fundraising events and someone said why not do a sort of talking to an agents box that collects a little bit of money and if you put a coin in a house that's your 2p. that's it it has no idea what you put in is just a simple coin sensor that's in in in there it's based on a raspberry pi detects a coin going in and just say a random phrase it's sometimes miss announcements trying to solicit money off visitors particularly wednesday overnight but you'll find all sorts of odd things like this around the hack space this is an old al dsl modem over to see the raspberry pi there it's been fitted into a little amplifier circuit to getting sound there if you press the button on it replays the last message depressing enough times it okay, so we have all sorts of equipment that people get access to so this is actually a computer-controlled embroidery machine so members can do designs at home bring their designing on a memory stick use the software on this computer to convert into the right formats to do the embroidery on this machine there's a number of machines that you need to do an induction with us before you can gain access and we record who's done the training through the rfid access system so if i put my card in there? they'll just say not inducted and i won't be able to turn the machine on so i've looked on the training but if someone else comes in and has done the training they can put the car in here and turn the machine on it and they can obviously use it all of this has been made in-house by members against based on an arduino an rfid car reader and then we've got our laser cut box over that area we've got lots of crafts and art materials. lots of textile materials. that's of interest as some members. we also have another group of members who look after these vending machines so we've now got two vending machines this particular one is featured in a computer file video before it's all on the same rfid saxis system as the machines and the doors. the last time we came that was full of bits of electronics yeah it used to be but we found that the foodstuff sells better and brings a bit more money into the hack space this area we've got woodworking tools so in this area for all of the dusty woodworking tool so we've got a big table saw here so it was a couple of members over there using the planer fit yourself so here we've got our laser cutter this is used for cutting acrylic plywood mdf they'll also cut paper card leather. it will engrave glass it will engrave slate we do get a lot of people joining just to get access to this machine because this is not sort of thing you could have in your garage at home wrong knotless you've got lots of space and lots of money these cost about six thousand pounds as soon as you powers up the head will also date them in the corner over there makes quite a lot of noise the noise is actually the extractor. so the extractors willing to suck all the smoke that's in here out of the way okay, so this is the software we use it works using dxf files just going to quickly import a file there's a little bit of tidying up when you still on this fart it comes in as a number of separate points here and then we can send it down to the laser cutter once we put the appropriate powers and speeds in and then the laser cutter will cut the part out so in this area, we've got our metalwork tools. we've got band saws because you metalwork we have a lathe if anyone's doing metal turning we've got a bridgeport mill milling machine and at the back we've got welding equipment. we've got mig welder and a tig welder and over this side here we've got a ball tomaters hacksaw so you can if you've got your large piece of metal to cut up there's no need to do it by hands this is a nice parallel cut you put your metal in here and it's or through and then turned itself off when it's finished these old railway clocks have come from the work place of one of our members. so one of them there we've got running with a the time on it we're not got this one running the moment so nothing in hack space is currently on two floors and the both ones directly below the other but unfortunately a bit of a walk around to get between the two levels but eventually we hope to have enough money to put in our own staircase our own or our own lift even between the two floors okay, so this is our new area and in this area here we've got some more computer-controlled equipment, so we've got a computer-controlled milling machine here we had someone just recently making some parts for guitars on here, which looked fantastic and over the far end we've got a computer-controlled lathe in the middle. we got a 3d printer do i get see much use then? no, the computer-controlled milling machine the computer control they don't get an awful lot of use and i think the problem with that is that we don't have any induction program for those so if you want to use those you got to do a lot of reading up a lot of self-training perhaps watching youtube videos to learn how to draw the parts and then to get them the parts through the tool paths for cutting them out this computer might be a bit dated, but it's powerful enough to run this blaze it's all of the lighting in this new area is computer control. we've got arduino. 'he's running the show down here it's all in this control box. and there's actually a web interface you can use to turn on individual lights in this area i didn't develop this is all done by another member so we can turn on individual lights on and off so if i just select one in here? sure, which one it is? but well the lights will go off if i do that. yes one over there anyway, quite a few members in particular like having to go to a web site to turn the lights on and off whilst this you know, it's a great use of technology. some people didn't like that so we had one member who built a light switch whilst it looks like an ordinary light switch. it's just got a usb power sly type going into there. we've actually got a pro soon there. i've got an esp8266 one off we're an opera for perfect organization if anyone's looking to find the hack space there's a couple of good websites to take a look at one is wiki dot hackerspaces dot org where you can find hack spaces all over the world if you're in the uk is www.spacetelescope.org transcribed