- when valve invited me
down to their headquarters for a preview of the steam deck, they not only refused
to allow me to open it, but they wouldn't tell me anything about the internal configuration, other than what i was able
to ascertain for myself using a thermal camera. well, that all changes today. valve published a do as we say, not as we do tear down of the steam deck, and i have intentionally
avoided looking at it all day, and i'm going to be watching it together with my cohost anthony, to see what we're going to learn, and what still remains to be seen. and the whole thing is
sponsored by ifixit. is your battery not lasting
as long as it used to? looking for a new project? ifixit's got you covered. stay tuned to the end of this video, to learn more about their
battery replacement kits. (upbeat music) okay, we ready? - let's do it. - [host] hi, this is a video
about opening up a steam deck to replace one or more of
the components inside it. - [anthony] i love the gloves. - [host] specifically, we're going to cover the thumb sticks and - very interesting. the
thumbnail says, don't do this. and the video opens with
here's how to do this. - [anthony] well, they got
to cover their butts, right? - they do. but i got to say, i absolutely respect that
valve is directly addressing what gamers have been asking about it, because we all know the biggest issues with handheld consoles, which excuse me, with handheld consoles
that are to be unnamed, is joystick drift. and for me personally, if i'm investing this kind of
money into a handheld device, knowing that it can be
quickly and easily repaired, is a big deal. - [host] the ssd. - [linus] well, we'll see how quick, and we'll see how easy it is. - [host] this is a how-to
video, but in another way, it's a why you really shouldn't do this. (linus & anthony laughing) that's because even though it's your pc, or will be once you've
received your steam deck, and you have every right to
open it up and do what you want - [linus] wow! - you have every right to
open up and do anything. wow. i've only ever heard that from fairphone. - what a strong, also framework, but what a strong
statement, maybe system 76, what a strong statement for a
device manufacturer to make! when you buy it, it belongs to you. how is that controversial? (anthony laughs) and yet here we are blown away by it. - it's 2021! - [host] i really don't recommend
that you ever open it up. the steam deck is a very
tightly designed system, and the parts are - okay, i take issue with that "don't recommend that you ever open it up" because that's going to suck in some dust. you're going to want to clean that out. maybe some compressed air will do it, but you probably want to clean
out the whole thing inside. - and the thing is, most people are not going to
be opening this thing for fun. they're going to be opening it, because there is an actual need to do it, whether it's to replace
a thermal compound, or whether it's to clean it, or whether it's to replace
a defective component. that's why people are going to open it. i mean, i could see myself opening it as ssd capacities get dramatically larger, and you can get these
tiny little, what is it? a 30 millimeter unit
they've got in their forty. - i think it's 20. i guess. we'll see. i'm not entirely sure.
i saw it briefly there. - yeah, we'll see. - they're not widely available in the consumer market right now, but they may be coming - the highest cap ssd that
you can get your steam deck with today is one terabyte. and we know we're going to get bigger ssds in this form factor in the future. - wait. do they have a one terabyte model? i thought it was 64, 256
and 512, m.2 2230 ssd slot. - it is, it is 512. - wait, technically, shows
steam deck 64 gigabyte to be upgradable to
one terabyte of storage for less than the official
512 gigabyte version, however, and then it goes
on to say other things. - there we go. but there
is a one terabyte m.2 2230. kioxia makes one, but
i think it's oem only. apparently there is a
dell that you can get for 200 canadian rubles - that ain't bad actually. - on dell.com. - i mean the performance
of this thing, who knows? - it's probably the qlc with no drm cash. - [linus] yeah. - so, like, yeah. - it's more than enough
for the steam deck, given that it can apparently run on emmc. - and memory, kind of
like a micro sd card. - yeah. and they told me when i was down there that they couldn't tell
me which of the games on my unit were installed on the internal ssd
versus the micro sd card. but they, that, i probably
wouldn't be able to tell, and i couldn't. may have definitely done
some optimization there. - [host] so they aren't really designed to be user swappable, opening up and replacing
parts might mess things up, like, profoundly. - [anthony] yeah. - [host] for example, if
you damage the battery, the whole thing could catch fire later - [anthony] yeah. - [host] which would be bad. - yes. but there's entire
hobbyist industries that use these batteries,
i mean, not just exposed, but in moving mechanical devices that literally fly through
the air, i mean, these are, these are the same kinds of cells that you would strap to
a drone ripping around at a hundred kilometers an hour. so yes, it's risky and you do
need to be careful with them. but also if consumers can handle that, i think, they can probably
manage to not puncture this thing opening up the steam deck. - [host] so be forewarned and leave this kind of
thing to professionals, unless you really feel
like taking big risks with your property and with your life, which could end if - [anthony] what? - okay, i mean, a fire could kill you. - if it caught fire in your pants, yeah. - if it caught anywhere
while you're sleeping, you could die. - [anthony] oh yeah. - i mean, this is, this is fair. and this is the kind of device
that would be very likely to be stored in your, in
your backpack, you know, in some kind of combustible material. - yeah. like, imagine
you're on the highway, on your motorcycle with
that in your backpack. and it blows up. - so you know what,
i'ma back valve on this. don't screw around with it if you don't know what you're doing, but also this is not like
opening up a pc power supply, where literally a slip of
the hand is the difference between you're alive and you're dead. - [host] if you do this
wrong, just saying, also the warranty doesn't
cover any damage that you do. - [anthony] fair enough. - [host] however - they didn't say that the warranty
doesn't cover the device. if you don't damage it, - [anthony] that's an interesting reason. - the mere act of opening
it up voids the warranty. - yeah. so if the act of opening it up, doesn't void the warranty.
that's very good on valve. - but we'll find out that
there was a however here, before i paused it. - [host] having said all that, we also wanted to make this video to simply show you what's
inside the steam deck, taking things apart and putting
them back together is cool, especially, powerful
handheld gaming computers. - that last part is a
really mixed message. - yeah. - they spent a minute
telling us not to do this. and then they were like, "but it's cool!" i think i get it. i think
they're trying to be like edgy, but it really does actually undermine some of the legitimate safety
warnings that they gave us. - a little bit. yeah. - [host] please note the
screws that secure the housing or what's called self tapping screws, and they're embedded in plastic boxes, they can be removed and re-installed, but it's much easier to
strip or over torque screws of this type compared to standard ones. so be aware that they're
very sensitive and either the screws or the housing can be damaged. - that's a really good point. and i did notice that they
used two different lengths of screws here. - [anthony] hmm. - so you're going to want
to keep careful track of which ones went where. - you don't want one
poking through the front of your steam deck when
you put it back together. and i mean, for that matter though, couldn't they have used, like,
a metal sunk into plastic to prevent this kind
of self-tapping issue? - they could've, it
would've increased cost. - yeah. - they probably would
have had to press fit some kind of threaded inset. - [anthony] yeah. - and that not only adds the
cost of the metal pieces, which is fairly negligible, but it adds the labor of putting those in that compared to just
putting a self-tapper into a molded piece of plastic, very different ball game. and given how aggressive
they've gotten on the price, i don't even begrudge
them something like that. it really isn't intended
to be taken apart. i say fair play valve. - yeah. okay. that makes sense to me. - as we've gotten more
into manufacturing products for ourselves, i've gained
a lot more understanding, and respect for the difficulty that manufacturers go
through to make things actually make any sense at all, from a cost perspective. - [host] it does help prevent damage. - a torque wrench. okay,
now hold on a second. you don't need a torque wrench to avoid stripping a
self-tapper in plastic. you just need to, your fingers
are the only torque wrench you really need. you go until two fingers,
can't get it in anymore, and that's it. at that point, it's not
just going to fall apart. it's in there enough and
you're not going to overdo it. - these screws seem to be
sunken into the plastic though. so you'll probably need something. - maybe three fingers then. if you can't tell, then
don't take it apart. - [host] opening the
case immediately, we can - did you notice how many times the host has straightened
those screwdrivers above the steam deck - yeah - and they're still crooked. is that a joke? are they meme-ing? - [host] and makes the
product less drop resistant. there's no way to avoid this. - [linus] hmm. - [anthony] really? - [host] so just know that
the structural integrity of your deck will be lessened
somewhat by doing any of this. - [anthony] interesting. - [host] static electricity
can easily break your steam deck permanently. - actually. it's harder than you'd think. - yeah, it's it's okay. so it probably won't break it permanently in a fundamental way, but it might cause things like, oh, well, now voltage regulation isn't
quite what it used to be. and you're not going to turbo as high, and you might lose
performance kind of thing. - or it just might not do anything. like we saw in our video with electroboom. (electroboom & linus screaming) - [linus] here it is. - [anthony] that's it, back's up. - [linus] this is it. - [anthony] he didn't
show taking the back off that's that's not very satisfying. - yeah. i was expecting a reveal shot. i guess what that tells us is there's no ribbon cables attached to the
backing or anything like that. - probably. if their goal is to show that they're taking this apart
and you can't take it apart. the other thing is dude, one
of the joysticks is missing. - [linus] oh wait, yeah! - [anthony] so this is pretty far in. - [linus] they pulled the joy, oh no, you can see the
daughter board for it in the top of the frame. - [anthony] yeah, i think that's it - [linus] it is packed
tight. it is cooler. - [anthony] there's all kinds of boards. - [linus] cooler, right dead center. - [anthony] yeah. - i see what appears to be actually, no, i'm a little confused. through the right hand, what
are we looking at there? it kind of looks like
a grill or something, but it can't be because
that's the front of the unit. it's the speaker grill. - [anthony] that might be a speaker. yeah. cause i think we're
seeing the table below it. so where's the speaker then.
is it just below his hand? - [linus] or hold on. let
me see that a little bit. - [host] spark jumps from you to one of the integrated
circuits on the board, it'll probably fry some
of the parts forever. - [linus] i mean, yes, but also if you're wait, what? - [anthony] now we're back to - [host] unfamiliar with
preventing static discharge, - [host] you should
probably stop doing this, and turn it over to a pro. - yes. that is right. - yeah - but why didn't they just
shoot a quick pickup, man? - why this, the production
value is on this video? - i'm sending an email to my pal at valve, because this is the kind of thing that would have been
completely preventable, if they had just worked with us on this. - maybe they wanted it to
look really amateurish. so like anybody can go to get
into it and anybody can do it. valve is known for doing
things for a reason. - [host] first, remove these four screws. - [linus & anthony] we just did that. - [linus] they're literally out. - [host] so start keeping
your screws organized to help you when it comes
time to reassemble everything. - [linus] okay, this is good advice. - [host] after the screws are out, you just need to pry the case open. - [linus] what is that?
do they have a special jag for assembling these things? - is that what i was looking
at? oh, oh, that's cool. - that is so cool. so it doesn't put any
pressure on the screen. you don't scratch the screen. it doesn't put any
pressure on the joystick. - yeah. and it keeps it nice
and flat, flush with the table. - i like it. - yeah. - [host] your fingernail, that hurts. - [linus] okay, here it is.
our first unobstructed look. - [anthony] so that was a battery, a bit of writing on the
battery that we were seeing. - [linus] god. - [anthony] look at all the ribbon keels and daughter boards. so many pcbs. - this is some pcb, next
level pcb tetris right here. i'm surprised because given
how big it is compared to the ayaneo, which didn't
need this many daughter boards, if i recall correctly. i would have thought it would have a bit more of a kind of
contiguous internal layout. but then valve also did
squeeze in more io or, okay, i shouldn't say more io. the ayaneo has like dual usb-c ports, but, but more buttons, which take up a huge
amount of internal space. - the other thing is that could
be good for repairability. cause then you can just get
a module to replace out. - hmm. - if like one of the buttons
was decided like there was a broken trace or something, - that's true. - which may not be a thing
that'll happen often, but if you drop this thing,
a lot of things can go wrong. - [linus] it looks like a combination, some kind of heat shield slash emi shield. that's over top of the cpu. or i guess i should call it an apu. - yeah. - that's going to help keep
a skin temperature down on the back of the device. you actually have to do
that for regulatory reasons. - [anthony] i wonder if that's
also providing an air path for that fan. cause the, the intake and the
exhaust are up there on that, on that entire plane. i think. - [host] note that this video
shows pre-production hardware, and there will be some differences between what you see here and
the steam deck that you own. this is the battery. - doop. - "this is the battery." - [host] before proceeding,
it's important to disconnect it. do that by unplugging these wires here. - [anthony] disconnected with? okay. - [host] the first component
we're going to replace is a thumb stick. this part is easy to remove. - [linus] oh wow. that was very jarring. - yeah, he didn't actually show. - [linus] well, we see it here. there's three screws. maybe
we're going to go back in time. - [host] be aware that the
whole assembly is custom. the stick, the board and the cap. replacing these will require
matching the custom parts, exactly. stay tuned in the coming
months for a source for replacement parts, thumb
sticks, ssds and possibly more. - what? wow. (linus and anthony applaud) - we're in sync here. but i mean, i think that
reflects how strongly we agree that this is a good guy move, that shouldn't be a
good guy move but it is. valve should not stand out in the industry for providing easy access to resources, and replacement components. and yet here they are, a
multi-billion dollar corporation that doesn't have to give two
(beep) about what you think, because you'll buy it
anyway and they're doing it. - well, the other thing
is too, like these parts, if they manufacture more of them, so they have spares and
they can sell those spares. that's going to drive down
the cost due to a economy of scale. - yeah. - it'll be a little bit
more in terms of logistics. - yes. - but it's, it should
probably just work out and you get good guy points, because nobody else is
doing this for some reason. - [linus] okay. - [host] lift this lap. - [anthony] the clothes are back on. - [host] unplug the flex cable. - [linus] they did it. they went back in time again. (anthony laughing) these are much better instructions for how to remove this ribbon
cable than what they provided for removing the battery connector, which by the way is connected again. - [host] well here,
remove these three screws, and then take the stick assembly out. - to be clear. i don't want
to hate on the host here. - no. it's just an
amateur video. that's all. - okay. be nice. - no, i'm saying, that's what i mean. - that's so catty. (linus imitates a cat) - that's no, that's not what i mean. what i mean is that it's,
it's intentionally designed like from the perspective
of somebody who's just like, "hey, i'm going to show you
how to take this apart now. here's how it goes." not like, "welcome to the
valve steam deck disassembly." - oh, you pursue more like
light hearted, like casual tone. - yeah. - okay, i thought you were
calling them amateurs. - no! amateur means for the love of. - okay. all right. all right. - [host] that's it. now just reverse all that
to put another one back in. let's move on to the ssd. - [anthony] okay. - [host] we don't recommend
replacing the included drive. what we do recommend for
increasing your storage capacity is the handy micro sd card slot. so much easier and plenty fast. - that's fair. and there's already like
cad files floating around in various subreddits of people designing, like, external usb-c storage packs that would clip on the back
and plug into the usb-c port. there's going to be lots of
options to expand your storage. if it was me, man, i'd
upgrade the internal ssd, but i'm also just a big nerd, and i can afford to break my steam deck. that's the question you
have to ask yourself. - i'm not sure if they
mentioned in this video, but i heard somebody saying that there's actual, like, any emi reason for why you shouldn't replace that ssd. just vaguely when i saw it going through on my twitter feed. - okay. so let's have a look. maybe it has a custom
shield on it or something. - [anthony] yeah. - [host] please note before
attempting an ssd replacement, an off the shelf ssd could cause problems. - [anthony] okay. - [host] one: power consumption. an off the shelf ssd can draw more power than the original drive, which could cause overheating
and reduced battery life. two: electromagnetic interference. - [anthony] yeah. - [host] our ssd is located very close to our wireless module, and was specifically chosen and tested to not interfere with wifi and bluetooth. an off the shelf ssd might have a different emissions pattern and could compromise wireless performance. - [linus] okay. - [host] three: mechanical - [linus] that's fair. - [host] we place components
on their motherboard underneath the ssd and a different one might
mechanically interfere with these components. - so the main reason that might
happen is if you have nand packages on both sides of the ssd, which could be a very legit
strategy for boosting up the capacity of an extremely
small 30 millimeter long m.2. - yeah, i think it's
actually pretty common. - [host] especially during vibration. for assembly, at least one screw, which holds down the thermal module onto the apu is also used
to hold down the shield can. removing this screw can
impact the thermal performance of the thermal module. here we go. first, we're working on
removing this outer shell. - now that scenario where i
could see them bringing out their torque wrench again, you want to make sure that if
you are installing a cooler, you are screwing it in evenly
on both or all four sides. and the reason for that is if you've got your cpu die or apu, and you've
got your cooler on top of it and it's sitting crooked, one side of it could get less
cooling or even in some cases, if you have an air gap, which
is effectively an insulator, no cooling, that's a big problem. - yeah. if you've ever you like at home, you've probably not done this, but if you've ever tried to
install a thread ripper cpu without their torque wrench,
that's real difficult too, because you can either over-tighten it, and like flatten out the, the lga pins so that it
doesn't make contact anymore, or under tighten it and
not make contact that way. like it's, it's actually just
actually a really good idea to have a torque wrench
for this kind of thing. - if it's a well-designed cooler, it'll probably have stoppers
and you just go until it stops, but this is valve's first attempt, so depending on the oem
they're working with. shield. - [host] as you've just seen
these two screws come first, two more screws under here. okay. now you can actually
remove the shield, but be super careful to not
disturb the whole thermal setup. very important to make
doubly sure that the battery is disconnected before proceeding. - [anthony] so the battery
was under that can. - [linus] yeah. - so this whole time - you can pull it out to the side. to the side. - yeah. - okay. - okay, yeah. that is very
close to the wifi module. look at those antennas there, right there. - they're right freaking there. boy, it's packed. there's your drm. - [anthony] yeah, fat boy heat pipe. - [linus] one heat pipe. yup. - [host] now disconnect the drive. note that all steam deck
models use the m.2 connector for internal storage. - [anthony] only 20 to 38 size will fit. yep. that's correct. - yeah. give the community time. - yeah. i mean there's, there's no reason. - seriously. - yeah, there's no reason you
couldn't have an extension. - ribbon extension, man. you guys want to see on ltt store.com? okay steam deck m.2 ribbon extension, we find some other place to jam a 2280. i honestly don't know. i don't think we'd be able to - probably have to do it externally. - [linus] yeah. - [host] including the 64 gigabyte model. to actually remove the ssd - so the 64 gigabyte emmc is a nbme. - okay. - module. - interesting. that was not what i expected. we knew the 64 gig emmc
model wasn't going to have the same performance as a full fledged ssd using the nbme protocol. also the flash it's just not
as fast if i recall correctly. - no. - but what we didn't
know was if it would plug into the m.2 interface, or if it would be soldered
to the board or something, and then you could expand
that with an m.2 ssd. it looks like it is either emmc or an ssd, you can't stack them. cause it was looking like the smart play, assuming that you didn't need, i think it's the better screen
that comes with the 512 gig or something like that - it's got the laser edge screen. - if you didn't need that, it was looking like the smart play was to take the emmc model
and then upgrade it. so you're getting more storage, but it looks like that's not a thing. - [host] that's it. (trumpets blowing) - [linus] cute. - [host] we haven't filmed
the entire reassembly process. but as we mentioned with the thumb sticks, it's basically doing this whole
thing again, but backwards. remember, if you have followed
these directions correctly, you've done absolutely - that was it? - that's as far as they're going to go? like, i kind of expected
to see a little bit more, not only that, but i did notice that the
ssd had cans on both sides for emi. so they're very, very concerned
about emi on that sse. - now what we don't know is if we could reuse that emi shield, as long as whatever ssd we get is in a similar kind of form factor. and it wouldn't surprise me
to see someone like kioxia, who already works in within
these kinds of constraints to bring out an ssd that's
specifically compatible with the steam deck. i mean, we're already seeing
it with the playstation five. it's not like ssd manufacturers
aren't on this, you know? oh yeah. game console
is getting ssd upgrades. that's the thing. i think it's an, i think it's a matter
of time or maybe even with a pre-installed shield
or doing their own validation, or whatever. - the question there becomes, if other companies are
doing their own validation, and their own ssds, how long before valve actually
has an official support list? - i don't think they'll do it. - no? - i think it's just more
hassle than it's worth. - i guess. - yeah. why are they taking
on that responsibility? there's literally no money in it for them, and it's in their best interest for people to not break these things. and even though i think
at least for our users, the vast majority are not
going to break their steam deck by opening it, the odds are definitely
greater of breaking it if you open it versus if you just don't. - well, by that same token, why would they say that
it's yours to open? is it just that they're
very libertarian about it or - yeah, it's just that you can, but clearly the odds of
it generating a return, or a some kind of false
warranty claim from someone who accidentally damaged
something are definitely greater. if people open them. people make mistakes, it
happens to the best of us. i remember an incident
with an imac pro once, a very long time ago. (screen falls with a thud) - yeah but the difference here is that you'd actually to
buy these spare parts that you need to repair it that's, that's something that
valve has just said, well, they just came out and said, okay. - they haven't committed
to every spare part. joysticks, yes. what else did they actually
commit to providing? i don't know that they're
going to provide main boards. - they may not. - so if you spill your
coffee while you're working on an ssd upgrade,
that's going to generate a support ticket to valve, which even if they don't cover it, because it's not covered
by warranty, does add cost. - i could see batteries. i
could see maybe, maybe displays, maybe, but probably not mother boards. - yeah, probably not. personally. i'd like to see
valve go the whole mile, and make it so that for, it
would cost more obviously, cause he'd have all this extra packaging and extra logistics costs,
but i would like them to make the entire steam deck
available in exploded form. - to build one? - so you could just buy every part, and put it together yourself. if you, like, were a masochist
and you really wanted to, i challenge you valve,
take it one step further. - it would cost more to
put it together yourself with no warranty. that is
an interesting concept. - yeah. i mean, i don't think many people
would take them up on it, but it would mean that literally
everything is available as a replacement part if you needed it. - yeah. i'd be down for that - oh of course you will. - well yeah, i mean, i'm going
to take this thing apart. i don't care. - hashtag biased. did you pre-order one? - i did. - yeah. me too. - oh, wait, hold on. i heard back from valve, a full tear down in additional content. make sure you're subscribed guys. i heard back from valve and we
are definitely going to have some interesting stuff
going on once they jump through some internal hoops. - [host] but you're more informed now about what's inside your steam deck. - [anthony] that we are. - [host] anyway, thanks for watching. - that's fair. we are. and so are you, and you're
informed about our sponsor. ifixit. ifixit wants to help you
keep your devices powered, like, they are brand new. they have a wide range of products, including their battery replacement kits for your mobile devices. they've got kits for laptops,
cell phones, tablets, smart watches, and even nintendo switches. you don't even need to be an
expert to prepare your devices with ifixit. they've got beautiful step-by-step guides with tons of photos to walk
you through your replacement. and of course the kit
includes everything you need. so why pay for someone else to do it? when you can pay to learn a new hobby while also saving yourself
some time and money. and i really do mean saving yourself time. the time it takes to
coordinate with our repair shop and like drop stuff off and go pick it up, unless it's a very simple fix, honestly, could in many
cases be better spent just doing it yourself. so don't wait, check out ifixit.com/ltt to find the fixed kits
for your devices today. hope you guys enjoyed this video. if you're looking for another one, maybe check out our
preview of the steam deck. if you haven't already seen
it, we got to play games, we even did a little bit
of casual benchmarking, thermal camera. it's a pretty good deal.