maybe more than any other type of infrastructure, 
railways have a contingent of devoted enthusiasts.   "railfans" as they call themselves; or should 
say "ourselves"? maybe it's the nostalgia of   an earlier era or the simple appeal of seeing 
enormous machinery up close. but railroads and   the trains that ride along them are just plain 
fascinating. train drivers are often known as   engineers, but operating a locomotive is far 
from the only engineering involved in railways.   in fact, building and maintaining a railroad is 
a big feat full of complexity. and i'd like to   share some of that complexity with you, starting 
where the rubber meets the road, or in this case,   where the steel meets the... other steel?  it might sound like a simple topic, but don't  say that to the attendees of the annual wheel rail 
interaction conference. this stuff is complicated,   so this is the first in a series of videos i'm 
doing on the engineering behind railways. why   do the rails of railroads have such a weird shape? 
the answer is pretty ingenious. i'm grady and this   is practical engineering. in today's episode, 
wer'e talking about train wheels and rails. why do we build railroads anyway? they might seem 
self-evident now and even kind of elementary. but   modern railroads are the result of hundreds 
of years of innovation. and like many kinds   of innovation, the development of railroads 
was really just a series of solving problems.   for example, how can we move upwards of 
100 tons per vehicle without tearing up   the road in the process? well, instead of 
compacted gravel, asphalt, or concrete,   we can build the road out of steel. but steel 
is expensive, so rather than a ribbon, we can   save cost by using two narrow steel rails directly 
below the wheels. but wooden or rubber tires have   a lot of rolling resistance because they deform 
under load, and that resistance adds up with each   individual train car. so, we use steel for the 
wheels too. i built this model to show exactly how   this works. my wheels are plastic and rails are 
aluminum, but i think you'll still get the point.   steel wheels on steel rails are just so much 
more efficient than... well, there is the problem of turning, too. 
just because you put a rail below a wheel   doesn't mean it will follow the same path. you 
have to have some way for the rail to correct   the direction of the wheel and keep it on track, 
literally. and, if you look at railway wheels,   the answer is obvious: flanges. the wheels 
on railway vehicles all have them: a lip that   projects below the rail to guide the wheel as it 
rolls along, keeping the position side to side.   you could put flanges on the outside of wheels 
like this, but if a horizontal force like a hard   turn caused one of the wheels to lift, the flange 
won't help keep the wheel on track. we put flanges   on the insides of wheels so they can keep a train 
from derailing even if one wheel lifts off the   track. let's put some flanges on my wheels and 
try that demo again. you can see we haven't fully solved the problem. 
unlike a wheel that has a tiny contact point with   the rail, a flange is a big surface that 
creates a lot of friction around every   curve. if you've heard that characteristic 
squeal of a train going around a corner,   that's the sound of flanges rubbing and grinding 
along the side of a rail. rails on tight curves   are often made of higher-grade hardened steel 
compared to straight portions of the track,   and sometimes they're even greased up to minimize 
friction between flanges and the edges of rails.   but, there's a bigger problem at play in 
this demonstration than simple friction. instead of independent wheels, most railway cars 
use solid axles attached to both wheels called a   wheelset. they need that design to withstand the 
incredible loads each axle carries, but it poses   a problem around bends. a solid axle means both 
wheels turn at the same rate, but the length of   the outer portion of track in any given curve is 
longer than the inside of the curve. two wheels of   the same diameter spinning at the same rate will, 
kind of obviously, have to roll the same distance.   since there's a mismatch between the distances the 
wheels need to travel, solid-axeled wheelsets with   cylindrical wheels would always experience 
some degree of slipping around a turn.   that would not only create a 
bunch of additional friction,   but also keep the wheels from following the 
curved path, and a flange can only do so much. the trick to railway wheels is something that's 
not so obvious at first glance. the wheels are   actually conical. the profile of the wheel is 
wider on the inside next to the flange, and   gently narrows toward the outside of the wheel. 
a wheelset with conical wheels will naturally   tend to self-center itself between two rails. on 
a straight section of track, a wheel that rides up   higher on one rail will naturally fall back down, 
keeping the wheelset roughly centered on the road.   in a sense, conical wheels 
want to stay on the tracks.   there's always a little bit of wobble (exaggerated 
here), so trains actually move down tracks in a   sinusoidal side-to-side pattern that you can 
sometimes feel if you're paying attention.   incidentally, that helps the wheels wear evenly. 
but where it really counts is on a curve. the turning forces on a train cause it 
to tend toward the outside track. this   shifts the wheels over as well. the outer 
wheel will ride on the thicker part of its   tread nearest to the flange, while the 
inner wheel will ride toward its edge,   which has a smaller circumference. this way, 
the effective diameter of each wheel changes   in a curve and solves the slip problem 
that cylindrical wheels would face.   take a look at the way these conical wheels that 
i 3d printed behave as they make this corner. you   can see the outside wheel rolling on the wider 
part, effectively increasing its diameter and   thus distance traveled per rotation. conversely, 
the inside wheel rides on the narrower part of   the cone, and so it has a smaller diameter 
and travels a shorter distance per rotation. it really is kind of ingenious. most vehicles have 
a differential gearbox to deal with this challenge   of navigating curves; train cars just use some 
clever geometry. but that's not the end of the   story. you might even be thinking, "richard 
feynman already taught me this in the 80s...   it's nothing new." but there's more engineering 
involved in how train wheels and rails interact,   including the interesting shape of modern rails. 
think about that taper angle first. one standard   in the us uses a 1:20 ratio. for the main part 
of the wheel, that means the outside diameter   is roughly a quarter inch or 6 millimeters less 
than the inside diameter, and that difference has   a big effect on the allowable radius of curves in 
a railroad. a steeper cone can navigate sharper   curves, since there's a bigger difference in 
the circumference from the inside to outside.   you can see my wheelset can't navigate this 
s-curve, despite the exaggerated conicity. this challenge is partly solved 
with trucks, called bogies in the   uk. you can kind of think of trucks as big 
rollerskates under each end of a train car.   the trucks can rotate relative to the rest 
of the car, and they usually have some pretty   serious springs and suspension systems to 
keep a smooth ride rolling. most trucks keep   the wheel sets parallel, but some can even 
allow them to ride radially with each curve. however, even with trucks or bogies, wheels can 
overshoot their optimal orientation on the tracks.   when the simple sinusoidal motion created by the 
tapered wheels is amplified by the speed of the   car, the oscillation can violently slam the trucks 
side-to-side on the rails. this is called hunting   behavior. the violent motion can even cause a 
train to derail. it's worst with empty cars,   and usually only happens at higher speeds, 
so a lot of engineering goes into developing   wheel profiles and truck designs that raise the 
hunting onset speed so that it doesn't limit how   fast a train can go. that's a lot of innovation 
on the wheel side, but what about the rails? just like all parts of a railroad, the 
rails themselves have evolved over time.   turns out there are a lot of shapes they can 
take and still serve the same basic function,   but modern railway rails are shaped that way 
for a reason. weight is equivalent to cost for   big steel structures, so there's nothing on these 
rails that isn't absolutely necessary. in a sense,   rails are i-beams, a shape that is well-known 
for its strength and something we see in   plenty of other heavy load bearing steel 
structures. but there's more to it than that.   the bottom part of the rail, called 
the foot, distributes enormous loads,   converting the extreme contact pressure of a steel 
wheel into something that can be withstood by a   wooden or concrete tie. the web elevates the train 
above the ground, giving clearance for the flanges   of the wheels and keeping everything clear of 
small debris that might end up on the tracks. the head of the rail with where the action 
happens. this thick rounded section of steel   takes an awful lot of abuse over its life, 
and thus experiences the bulk of the wear.   an old rail section, especially on the high side 
of a curve, looks remarkably different than a   newly forged rail. here's why: theoretically, 
the speed of a spinning wheel exactly matches   the speed of the rail at a mathematically precise 
point. but trains don't care about math. for one,   even steel wheels on steel rails deform a little 
bit as they roll. rather than a single point,   there is a small contact patch between the two. 
that tiny area, roughly the size of a small coin,   carries all the weight of the train into the rail. 
but, because the contact patch is spread across   the tapered wheel, the wheel is turning at many 
different speeds on the same piece of rail. only   the center of the contact patch actually moves at 
the exact speed of the train. this results in a   small amount of grinding as the train moves along, 
slowly wearing down both the wheel and the rail.   eventually they start to conform to each 
other, and that's mostly a bad thing. wheels can wear down to get a vertical face 
that wants to climb up the rail or a hollow   profile with a quote-unquote "second flange" 
that takes the wrong direction at a switch.   most rail wheels have some amount of hollow to 
them, which changes how conical they actually are.   some wheels are even designed to be taken off and 
machined back into spec to extend their life. the   best way to reduce this wear is to use hardened 
materials and reduce the size of the contact   patch by curving the top of the rail so that 
the wheel only touches a tiny part of it as it   rolls by. after that, it's just a decision about 
how much wear you want before needing to replace   the rail. the more metal you include in the rail 
head, the more it will cost, but the longer it   will last. in fact, not all rails are equal. the 
lightest rails are used on straight sections and   small commuter service lines. the largest rails 
are used on curves and heavy-haul freight tracks.   once they get worn down on the main line, they 
often get reinstalled for a second life in a   yard or a siding where they can still bear 
train cars and locomotives at slow speeds. so, rails are shaped in the funny way for 
a reason: they're bulbous both to reduce   the size of the contact patch and provide enough 
steel to wear away before needing to be replaced.   and the shape of rails and wheels is 
still a topic of research and innovation.   just in the past few years, the standard profile 
of north american freight train wheels was   updated to the new aar-2a standard. just a tiny 
change in the shape of the wheel was tested to   have 40% less wear than the previous spec. that 
means trains will start seeing better steering,   lower friction, better fuel consumption, 
and longer lasting infrastructure. in many ways, railroads might seem like old 
technology, a solved problem that doesn't need   more engineering. but it's just not true. modern 
railroad companies use sophisticated software,   like the train energy and dynamics simulator, 
to keep track of all the complexities involved   in how wheels and rails interact. simulators 
can let you adjust factors like train makeup,   different track conditions, 
operating conditions, suspensions,   and more to characterize how trains will 
handle and how much energy they'll use.   that's the topic of the next video in this 
series, so stay tuned if you want to learn more. in the 19th century, railway engineering 
was all about how to build railroads,   finding routes through difficult terrain and 
efficient forms of construction. modern rail   engineering is all about getting the 
most out of the system. it might not   look like much when you see a train passing 
by, but a huge amount of research, testing,   and engineering went into the shape of those rails 
and wheels and we're still improving them today. research and testing is something that applies 
to another part of my life, and maybe yours too:   getting kids to eat healthy foods. we recently 
took a little vacation to a cabin in the woods,   but if you have little ones, you know that 
vacations can be more work than just staying   at home. that's partly because of 
all the meal planning and shopping   you have to do. luckily we brought 
hellofresh, sponsor of this video. this is 3 meals that i didn't have 
to plan out or shop for. plus the   pre-portioned ingredients meant it 
saved money, and most importantly,   i didn't have to worry about bringing home 
extra food when the ice in our cooler was   already melted. that simple box went a long 
way toward making our trip feel more like the   vacation it was meant to be. i do wish i would 
have remembered to bring a proper knife, though. hellofresh has a bunch of different 
plans, and we usually mix it up,   but this time went with the quick & easy 
options that are simpler and faster to cook:   perfect for a cabin with a limited kitchen. 
the lack of oven was another unexpected twist,   but i was able to pan fry the crescent 
roll dough without too much trouble. i tell my friends about hellofresh because we've 
been using it for more than 4 years, and it makes   our life better, and you might find that's true 
for you too. go to hellofresh dot com and use   code practical16 for 16 free meals plus free 
shipping! that offer is for new subscriptions   only and varies by plan across 9 boxes. that's 
code practical16 at hellofresh dot com for 16   free meals! thank you for watching 
and let me know what you think!