- due to recent events, lots of people have started to hoard food, and when you hoard food, you donate less. which is why we filled six semi trucks with over $1 million worth of food. because now more than ever, food banks genuinely need our help. this' wheeler literally
has 25 pallets full of food. so in this particular box,
there's stacks of bacon. - did you say bacon? - yes, bacon.
- okay. - and we have thousands of
boxes like this full of meat. so jonathan, what's in these trucks? - we've got bacon, sausage, ham, all of that center of
the plate protein item. - yeah.
- it's really hard for the food banks and the
clients that they serve to be able to obtain. so this is a game changer. - and we're gonna take 1 million servings and give them to food banks. (upbeat music) - here we are at the
food bank of albemarle. this is our first stop, and we're gonna unload 175,000 meals. and this is the first
truck packed full of meat. and we're gonna unload
everything in this, here. (grunting) boom. as i said before, it's
a truck full of meat. this is a pallet of hot dogs. it's literally 5,000 hot dogs. - yeah! hot dogs! - [jimmy] put your 5,000
wieners in the fridge. - okay.
- as you can see, there's a lot of empty
space in this freezer. and when we're done, this
freezer's gonna be full. (upbeat music) how many people do you
guys feed on a given day? - oh my goodness, thousands. - really? there's around 170,000 servings of protein in this truck. what does that make you feel? - fantastic. two weeks
ago, meat was very scarce. it was hard to find. yeah, because of all
this stuff going around. - that's exactly right.
- yes. - thank you by the way. - no problem. we're just trying to help. - this is so much food you guys. - it's literally 170,000
servings of protein, is what we're delivering here.
- oh my god. (soft upbeat music) - whew! (applauds) yeah. i just wanna let you guys know, this is a necessary business. a lot of places are closing down, but what are they supposed to do, just let people go hungry? this is something that has to stay open. can you just kind of
tell us what they'll do and how many lives it'll impact? - you know, 166,000 portions of protein that are gonna make a huge difference here just in northeastern, north carolina. we are just so grateful to you. - thank you so much for helping people. - we really appreciate it. - as you can see, we
dropped off 170,000 servings of protein to the next shelter. - let's go! (upbeat music) - if you were to fill
the biggest nfl stadium to the brim, every single seat, there's enough food in this truck to feed all of them twice. what's this? - [chris] cherrywood smoked bacon. this is small bacon. - small bacon. - and that is applewood bacon. there's a lot of bacon. - these literally are stuffed
to the brim full of food. and there's thousands of boxes. the point is, there's a lot of food. chris forklift them. - my safety certification
ran out a while back ago. don't tell anybody please. - [chris] that's a fast boy. - [jimmy] i know, right. - whoa! open sesame. (whimsical music) you're welcome. (laughing) - do not ride it like a horse. that is a no no. don't do that. - in a normal time we know that there are just under 600,000 people
who are food insecure, and about in every three
of those are children, right now during the covid
outbreak and the pandemic, we worry about everybody, really. you guys have been great
to bring this donation in. it's gonna impact a lot of people. - so far we have hit three
different food banks. (cheerful music) and since we started with six trucks, that means we have three. thank you for helping us deliver the food. - (truck engine revving)
you're quite welcome. that's what we do. - here's the thing chris, they probably didn't hear
a single word she said, so i'm gonna translate. she said, "subscribe to mr. beast. " (instrumental tone) (upbeat music) we are now here at the fourth food bank. and guess what we're gonna do? - give 'em food! - here's the truck, and here's chris guiding 'em. (horn honking) oh no. he's actually
listening to you, chris. we should go catch up with the truck. we gotta off-load it. (playful cartoon music) - [jimmy] what'd you find? - he's still with us. as you can hear, this is on. this one's on. chris, is that one on? - no, the one named chandler
is currently not working. (slow whimsical music) - let's go deliver food. all right, you're good. you're good. you're good. this is my favorite part
when it hits the padding. - and... - so soft.
- carl, come over here. - i wanna see if you can open it- - but he's so weak.
- in front of all these people right here. - i'm so weak? - everybody's judging you carl. (cheerful applauding) - [jimmy] there we go. (forklift rustling) this is a pallet of plant-based burgers. (grunting) - nope. (screaming) (crowd applauding) - yes! i'm not as weak
as you thought i was. (crowd applauding) - do you even know where the freezer is? - no. - i don't know where we're going. - all right, there we go! yeah! oh it's so cold it hurts. plant based meat done. - forklift. forklift. (crowd cheering) - jaime! jaime! - [jimmy] jaime bringing home the bacon! - [chris] is that it? - oh it is bacon. nice. (upbeat music) i didn't know i wanted to see this until i just saw it. (squeaking sound) (forklift rustling) (crowd cheering) - [lady employee] all right, he did it! (crowd cheers and applauds) (laughing) - this man loves his job. - so what's on your pallet, chris? - i've got plant-based burgers. - i got a pallet of bacon. - yeah, but mine's good
for the environment. - mine's good for your taste buds. - i wonder if they've ever thought about turning the heat up in here. - you're doing great. we're all really proud of you. - [chris] am i? - knock it. all right. - hey! - there it is. - i'm not useless. - [chris] it's so cold. get me out outta here. i'm skiing. - did i do it right? - [chris] click the trigger forward. jack it real good. keep jacking tyler. - is it on? - yeah. now pull. come on, tyler. you're doing great. you're definitely not
just sliding in place. i'm better than everyone! - wow. look how easily you did it chris. i'm so good. - hey chris, watch out. fender bender. - hey man, i'm trying to
deliver some food here. - i'm trying to pick up some food. - rock, paper, scissors goes first. rock, paper, scissors, shoot. - i won. - yeah. put some muscle into it jimmy. this is diced ham. you know, what's better than diced ham? steamed hams. ugh. what are you following me? - it's so cold. - and then we... - as you can see in the background, they're still off-loading lots of pallets. and this year here is jenny, and she works here at the food bank. there's about 170,000 servings of protein. could you just tell us how it
will impact people's lives? - we have one in seven people who are facing food insecurity. one in five kids. we distribute 38 tons of food every day. we're grateful. so grateful. - i thought we could help. now i know this might seem repetitive because we've moved a lot
of pallets in this video, but i wanna remind you that these pallets have thousands upon thousands of servings of protein in 'em, and these are genuinely
gonna impact a lot of lives. and now that the truck is empty, that means we've taken
care of all 200,000. what are you doing? - i'm spongebob. - well go be spongebob over there. - okay. (horn blows) - i'll see you at the next place. chris, what's that in front of us? - [chris] that's a truck of food. - [jimmy] what's that behind us? - [chris] truck of food. - [jimmy] does that make us a sandwich? - i thought we were delivering food, but now we're the food. - and we're here in
front of the food bank. and now we're gonna wait on the truck. oh, and it's here! look at the truck! (horn honking) - [jimmy] wow! look at that. - yeah! lots of food! you're good. you're good. - i don't think he listens to us. we are now at the last
food bank of the video. formation. let's go. (marching beat) - yeah! - my name jeff. - so this is harriett. she's in charge here. could you just tell us how have things been recently? has all the recent stuff affected you guys in any way?
- oh wow. - demand for food is, i think at an all time high, and i've never seen
anything quite like this. that makes today extra special, right? - do you think a few hundred thousand servings of protein would help? - i think protein helps all the time. we have about'8,000
children at risk of hunger, and we have another 45 or 50,000 seniors. we have a lot of veterans. - then a lot of people
live paycheck to paycheck, and with them not having
work at the moment, they're depending heavily on you. - they absolutely are. and protein is incredibly
important all the time. - chris, can you get it open? - i got it. - he did it! (crowd cheers and applauds) before we start unloading that one, we brought you a surprise. we brought you another truck full of meat! (crowd applauds) - hold it tight! three, two, one! there we go. there we go. - pump it up. faster. come on. i thought you guys were here to work. - [lady employee 2] you got this carl! (crown cheers and applauds) - yes! (carl screams) - carl what happened? - we took isolation too far. - wait, carl, could you get out of this? - i don't think so. - okay. so chris, does
that make you wanna...? - no. no. (carl laughs uncontrollably) - carl is super ticklish. - to the freezer! why is it so much heavier now? you're on top of it. (laughs) - so i had 1700 pounds of sliced bacon. what do you have?
- i got a thousand pounds of pepperoni. - why is that funny? - i don't know. - this is my tank. this is my food tank.
stop! - my salami's stuck on the pole. - mamma mia. - oh wait. i figured it out. i used the mat. - (grunts) come here bacon. - thank you. i was, i was having trouble
getting over the hump. - it's not legitimately stuck now. - i will always love you. - you don't have to. - ooh. - betrayal. - nerd! (laughing) that was so dangerous. (laughs) (upbeat music) - chris, look down this truck. what do you see?
- walls. - and this truck? - walls and one pallet. - that is the last pallet. go, go, go, go, go, go. - just wiggle it. - my precious little booty. (grunting) all right. you
just got tired, right? you didn't fall. and that's the last pallet. - all right, boys to the freezer with our thousands of pounds of meat. tyler, your meat's in the way. just four bros carrying
thousands of pounds of meat. tyler, meat train. brace yourself chris. (grunting) - go tyler.
- go tyler! - 3000 pounds of meat. oh, i'm losing it. - i'm losing it.
we're losing it. (upbeat music) - when we started, this
entire freezer was empty, and look at it. over 300,000 servings of
protein in this location alone.'0,000 children in north carolina don't know where their
next meal's coming from. that is insane, because when you think
about it across america, it gets exponentially bigger, which is why we partnered with smithfield to do something way
bigger than this video. because of smithfield, we were able to give these food banks this 1 million servings of protein. it literally would not have
been possible without them. here's the thing. smithfield does stuff
like this all the time, but the thing is they
can't do it on their own. so this is jonathan. he manages a lot of their programs, and he's gonna tell you
how you guys can help. - that's right, jimmy. so the issue with hunger, is that it's something
that affects everyone. it's really something where
we all need to get involved in order to address the solutions and really make ending hunger possible, especially at a time like this. - as we've heard from so
many of these food banks, a lot of people are hoarding right now, and they're just not giving as much. and genuinely, they do need your help. - which is why we're launching
a challenge right now called "the good food challenge." we wanna raise $1 million to support the feeding
america network of food banks across the country. if we hit a million dollars, everything that we just did for this video of donating a million servings of protein, we'll do it again. - let me get this straight. for every dollar they
donate to feeding america, you guys will donate
one serving of protein. that's right. we're
gonna hit that 1 million. - oh my gosh. okay guys, you stepped up for team trees. we raised $20 million to
plant 20 million trees. now i really want you
guys to step up here. this goal is much lower. we need to raise $1 million so they can donate $1
million servings of protein. and then on top of that, match it with another
million servings of protein. so please click the link description. do it right now. if you wait till later, you might forget. please, right now, go donate. a lot of people genuinely need your help. and i love you guys. [music] mister beast ohh [music] [music] mister beast ohh [music]