hello, calculator fanciers we have a real treat today! a viewer, a home amateur calculator reviewer, sent me in a calculator i have never seen before this is the gaxio! and they emailed and said: "have you ever seen a gaxio" i said i had not, and they got this shipped to me direct from the gaxio warehouse wherever that may be and so on the front you can see, it's a gaxio fg-82ms, very nice this is a scientific calculator on the back, you have all the options labeled it comes... it comes with a slide-on hard casetm loving that and... oh, down at the bottom there - made in china some of you may think the gaxio is a little bit familiar, looks vaguely like something you have seen before well, i have here our previous review we did of a casio - a member of the fx series and you can see - a surprising similiarities, look at that they're pretty much the same calculator, just in different packaging one's in a slightly cheaper packet than the other other fact - you're now watching an unboxing video in an unboxing video now, blatantly the calculators cannot
accidentally be this similar when i saw this it just sent ripples through the calculator fancier community, everyone's outraged i mean, surely if you're designing a calculator
at least design your own calculator don't just rip off someone else's making a cheap version of the calculator i mean, we are outraged. i will not let this go down i... i am i could not believe that casio
just ripped off gaxio's fantastic design so let's get in there and see
what the original has to offer now, i am a little hesitant to break the
package,  i don't want to have to cut into it if only it came with a little tab so i could open it aah! here we go, look at that, so i can pop that open there look at it just slid out! what an action!
there's, aah,  the inst-- oo! the instructions are bound. so often, i open a calculator, the instructions fly one way, calculator the other, i never match them back up again this, it's all contained, very nice. put that over there ok, let's pop the packet open and we have... (drum roll please) ok, so there's the calculator and that slide
on hard case ok, so you can see already, this covers a variety of models, so if
you own any of these and obviously, you're going to have more than one gaxio around the place, you can just look them up in there, very unfortunately it's  for the various fx models and what we have here is actually the gaxio fg-82ms, not covered by this set of instructions now, you might think this is very suspicious that the gaxio fg series calculator comes with instructions something labeled the
fx series and it's casio as we know who made the fx series of calculators ok so that case did indeed slide off
hard... and, oh,  here there's the inset in there and you can see they've not
glued it in properly, so if you decide you want to remove it and stick it to the
outside... like so, that is entirely... oh, i didn't quite... ok, you get the idea anyways look at this, this is the fg series classic, that's good high quality manufacturing as only gaxio can do ok, i don't know who quality control
person 28 are but whoever he or she is, they know a perfect calculator when they
see one right, let's take this thing out for a spin 2 square root... oh it's around the wrong way oh my goodness ok, o... ok hang on, so... so, 2 square root equals... nice times 2... oh ok. so they know if you're typing 2 a second time you know what you've typed, why waste
an entire part of the display when they can show you a fraction of it, that.. they've simplified it even down here, they've taken chunks off this number here, so you don't need all those extra digits and you can see, everyone knows the
square root of 2 is 1.411... whatever that is... 13 ok, here we go! 2, equals 31.11... something...ok *dies of laughter* ok, ok, hang on, hang on ok, i'm gonna be honest with you here
31.11... whatever that is... is not quite... 2 but it's not 1.999, so... you know... it's... it's gone different... in all new and creative ways let's try something a bit more down the line, let's put in
pi, so we've got pi down here, ok, shift, pi, excellent! and let's just try multiplying it
by one to see if it can do that equals 3.141... something... 9
ok ok ok that's ok, that's not so bad let's try dividing by 0 and see what
happens here 1 divide 0 equals... that's... it has a meth error so you... this calculator's had too much meth so when i was testing the inferior knockoff casio fx i tried the square root of 17 square root of 17 you simply type square root of 17 you
hit equals and it tells you that it's the square root of 17 so let's see how this one
does with that square root of 17 equals... a number ok, let's multiply that by the square
root of 17 and that equals... hey, hey! hey i did it! ok, i'm doubting myself, i'm gonna to redo root 2 times root 2 equals... two! what did i do before? obviously, the first calculation out of the box is just a warmup calculation, where it gives you a random kind of test... calibration number now it's it's... it's... it's actually i can feel it is genuinely it's heating up it's now warmed up and ready to go so as a whole it's quite... it's got quite a nice hand feel, i mean it's got these these kind of wings, which... which is sweet and... i mean the casio calculators, they're reasonably heavy, they've got
what feels like a lot of plastic whereas these i mean the gaxio, it's environmentally
friendly it doesn't use any more plastic than absolutely necessary it's got a real light kind of... you know... "could go at any moment" feel and i... i appreciate that dedication to efficiency in manufacturing final scores for the imported gaxio fx... oh, sorry fg, none of that knockoff casio rubbish fg 82-ms for display it's got a good display, bits of it seem to come and go all the time though, so i'm going to give it an 8... or rather most of an 8 for functionality, it's got everything i need that would be an 8 for acuracy, ooh, i wanted to give it a higher score, but it's not quite there every now and then so i'll... i'll drop the 10 down to an 8 ergonomics: works well in both hands, i
reckon around an 8 for cred, i mean it's got the gaxio name, what more do you need? that's an 8 and for durability *sound of calculator on calculator violence* obviously, an 8 that gives us a total score of 888 ok, that's it. look we're going to very
quickly check that in the instructions so you can see here... uhm... it's not the english bit... chinese... chinese... chinese... no english no other languages ok,  so normally they have every possible
language, here, unless you're fluent in chinese symbols... no luck. that's... that's the gaxio attention to detail.