i finally got myself a fidget spinner. let's open it up and take a look. so, i guess you just hold it and... oh, okay, i can... i can see why that is quite popular, it's... basically it's a little handheld gyroscope. that's awesome! the question now is: how fast can one of these possibly go? so the fidget spinner produces a slight hum as it spins so what we can do is get a spectral analyzer and see if we can pick up the frequency it's spinning at. so this is just my phone i have a spectral app on here. we have the frequency it can pick up on a horizontal axis in hertz and we have how loud that frequency is on the vertical axis, so if i whistle [whistling] there we go, one little spike [whistling] or if i try and generate more of a humming tone [humming] [higher-pitched humming] we get lots of harmonic spikes. i'm never going to do that again. okay now: i set it spinning, and we'll pick up with the frequency how fast it's going. so... i think the problem is this is simply not going fast enough, and it's not stable enough point glass and some blue tac [grunts] that now, i've seen my fair share of youtube videos, i know how to make something spin faster, you use compressed air. i haven't gotten air compressor but i have got a can of pre-compressed air that it turns out you can just buy off the internet. i've also seen enough videos to know how this goes wrong, so i have a safety shield for my face. so i'm going to use the compressed air to speed up the fidget spinner, and then we'll try and get a frequency reading of just how fast it is going. here we are. [quiet whirring] ah! oh, that's not bad. okay, here we go. so, to make it a little bit clearer what's going on, i'm going to switch from this view which gives you all of it at once to a wonderful rolling spectrogram view. so now we get, um, time scrolling along; we get intensity in terms of color, and frequency on the vertical axis this time. so we should see a solid bold line for the main frequency, and then we'll see the harmonics stacked on top of that. so, let's give it another go. right. this is the main event; i'm recording the data. i'm going to set it spinning because this is our serious trial. it's time for maximum speed with two cans! alright, here we go. here we go. [whirring] okay, you can see the frequency. there's the main one at the bottom there. whoa, and it's going up. come on, faster! [whirring] faster! [whirring] come on! [whirring] come on! okay, i think that we had a peak there. this is a scale of ouch, okay, um, a scale of 0 to 225, 250 and that i think i pick was about the middle of that top range so we'll we'll look it up. there we go. and see just how fast we were spinning. okay, on the playback, let's set it go. there we go. why am i still wearing this? okay, so this is the playback and you can see there's our big peak so i will pause it there and you can see the scale goes 0 to 250 and i'd say that's pretty much spot-on 3/4 of the way up. 3/4 of 250 means it was going about'7.5 hertz. but we've now got our frequency, now here the thing about the fidget spinner: it's got three lobes and the air is hitting each one is it goes by so i'm going to divide that'7.5 by 362.5 hertz, so now we just need to know how fast the tips of the spinner were going. radius of 4 centimeters. 2 pi times 4 centimeters times 602.5 times a second means that the tips of my visit spinner were going 1571 cm/s. let's convert that into some better units. it equals 15.7 m/s which is 56.5 k/m; don't worry people who don't understand real units, that is 35.1 mph. that's pretty fast and bear in mind that 62.5 hertz of this thing spinning is 3750 revolutions per minute so we're talking like engine speeds and the tips of it are going pretty funny not outrageously fast but pretty fast for a toy. so that is how fast you can get a fidget spinner going, do get one of the spectral apps, there are free versions available. you can play with them have a look what happens when you sing or record different notes and frequencies and things moving into them. it's kind of a, as a gateway activity to fourier analysis, so i highly recommend it. as always thank you so much to everyone who watches and likes and everything else these videos and of course subscribe to the channel, blah, blah, blah, but i'm not really paying attention anymore because i've got one last if it works: a gyroscopic thing i'm going to see if i can get some gyroscopic precession i don't know if i can get it going fast enough not... we'll give it a go, oh, let's put it. let's put it on a gopro. all right now. now. this is a youtube video, here we go [whirring] come on. come on [whirring] change of the can yes! [laughs] ah, sort of... [sound of fidget spinner hitting the table]