- the new iphone 13s and 13 pros don't have always on displays. they don't have usb type c, and they can't even do satellite calls. as usual, the rumors leading
up to today's apple event weren't a hundred percent accurate. but you know what? that's okay, because daddy apple gave us something we didn't even know we needed. a new phone camera that oscar winning
director kathryn bigelow says will birth a whole
new genre of cinema with fancy auto-focus. - [woman] what? - shh right now, i just need you to focus on our sponsor. ifixit. is your battery not lasting
as long as it used to? looking for a new project? ifixit has you covered. stay tuned to the end of the video to learn more about their
battery replacement kits. (upbeat techno music) last year, apple added a new archetype to the iphone pantheon
with the iphone 12 mini, which joined the iphone
12, 12 pro, and 12 pro max. this year, well you can pretty much
take last year's lineup, prices and all, and tick all the numbers up by one. there's an iphone 13 mini,
iphone 13, 13 pro, and 13 pro max occupying almost the
exact same price points. the iphone 12 and 11
shuffled down to knock the venerable iphone 10xr on off the list, while the iphone se gets to stay on. probably because it's just so darn cute. now, a cynical person might see a lineup that looks just like last year's with the numbers increased by one. and think, gee, there's probably not a ton of new and interesting features that apple felt would justify
a change in price, and you'd be dead wrong. you see that notch that's 20% smaller, so check yourself. (woman chuckling) but the truth is across the board, the upgrades this year
are a lot more incremental than in years past. just like that number increase. the overall design of each model is pretty much the same as its predecessor. although, as we said,
the notch is 20% smaller. and the dual camera system
in the non-pro models, now has its lenses placed
diagonally instead of vertically, which seems like the apple equivalent of a waiter serving you
yesterday's leftovers with a dramatic flourish. the soc and every one of
this year's iphone 13 models, is the a15 bionic. with six cpu cores, just
like last year's a14 bionic. apple calls it the fastest
cpu in a smartphone just like last year is a14 bionic. being 50% faster than
the leading competition, whatever that is. apple just loves comparing
their new devices to abstract concepts rather
than specific products. it's probably their charm. the a15 bionic in the non-pro
models is a 4-core gpu, while the pro models get an extra core for graphics performance that's 30% faster than the competition. again, just take their word for it, okay. just calm down. and a 16-core neural engine that's going to make the new iphones even better at doing things
like identifying plants. actually kind of cool i guess. battery life is a bit better too. with the iphone 13 mini lasting
one and a half hours longer than last years model. and the 13 lasting two
and a half hours longer. but faster performance
and better battery life is about as expected as linus waking up his house
with ridiculous data center. get subscribed to catch
that video by the way. (anthony chuckling) that's going to be a thing. but the biggest leap this year, appears to be the cameras
and new camera features. apple has essentially activated
the hand me down protocol and gifted the iphone 13 non-pro models with the same wide and ultra wide cameras from the iphone 12 pro max. that means a wide camera
with a seven element lens, f1.6 aperture, and the fancy sensor shift
optical image stabilization that apple introduced last year. which only makes me more excited to see how they revolutionized
the all new camera system in the iphone 13 pro cameras. and here again, we're looking
at incremental changes. a zoom in your telephoto lens, a brighter ultra wide
lens with auto focus, and a wide lens with
apple's largest sensor ever, leading to 2.2 times better
low light performance. now to be fair, those are improvements, and i have no doubt the
iphone 13 pro and pro max will take some of the
best photos and videos of any smartphone ever. but it doesn't make me feel things like when apple first
introduced the notch. i still remember the chills. it's telling that apple spent quite some time in today's presentation, talking up a new cinematic mode, that looks like auto-focus
with some ai thrown in. in this mode, the phone will
automatically rack focus from foreground to background as the subject looks
away or enters the frame. using what seems to be a
combination of actual auto-focus and ai power blurring. it was apparently enough of a reason to produce a very knives out as short that felt almost dreamlike. although that might've also
been the processing halo around the actors. the pro and pro max models do have one truly exciting
camera feature this year. support for prores video. which will give these iphones some of the post-processing capabilities of cinematic cameras. this is one of the things that may kathryn bigelow and
this other guy speculate that iphones will change
the language of cinema. i don't really know what that means. if you're excited by the unknown, you should order a mystery
21 ounce water bottle from lttstore.com for only $19.99. it's like a fortune cookie. to be fair to apple, we have been ragging on
them a little bit here. there is one actually
exciting hardware upgrade the iphone 13 pro and pro max
are bringing to the table. the same promotion adaptive
refresh rate displays seen on the ipad pros. with the capability to change
from 10 hertz to 120 hertz, depending on what's happening on screen. again, this is good, great even i've been waiting for this, but i can't help it feel like apple grabbed a cool feature from the ipad and just tossed it onto
the 13 pro and pro max to add a little more pizazz. you know? i mean, sure. there's now a one terabyte storage option for the pro models. which will be great for storing
all that progress footage, but good luck transferring it to your mac via the lightening port. usb 2.0 speeds. apple specifically, they went out of their way to not show the lightening ports on that thing because they knew, they knew that we would really
rip them a new one over this. the ipad pro, they had the usb type c and in fact, they're
doing thunderbolt now. but they're not going to do anything. (anthony stammering) - [david] anthony's out of control. - overall, the iphone's left us feeling a bit disappointed. i can't help feeling like
releases like this one, are exacting what the s suffix was for. but apparently apple
has left that far behind in favor of minute long monologues about the physical vapor
deposition process, required to make the
sierra blue iphone pro, look so good. it does look good. thankfully apple shared
off some other stuff today that wasn't iphones. the new apple watch series
7 does not have flat sides, like the leaker said. but it does have a bigger
70% brighter screen, new ip6x dust resistance and
a swipe keyboard for typing. it'll also detect when you start riding and subsequently fall off of a bike. which is not something i would want to enter into the record, but i mean, i can understand
that utility there. there were also a couple of new ipads, including a base ipad
with an a13 bionic chip and a new ultra wide 12 megapixel camera, so you can use center stage. and the ipad pros and ipad ears flat sided design has
finally trickled its way down to the new ipad mini. which supports a new liquid
retina 8.3 inch display, support for the new apple pencil, new 12 megapixel cameras,
stereo speaker and landscape and a usb type c port. wait a second. this ipad has the same a15
bionic as the new iphones. and it has 5g. - [announcer] and it will be available in both wifi and cellular configurations. - what's to stop you from just using this thing as a big phone? it's also quite a bit cheaper. just like repairing your own electronics. it's cheaper than buying new. thanks to ifixit for
sponsoring today's video. ifixit wants to help you
keep your device powered like they're brand new. ifixit has a wide range of
battery replacement kits for your mobile devices. kits for laptops, cell phones, tablets, smart watches, and even nintendo switches. you don't need to be an expert
to repair your own devices. each kit has a simple as
follows step-by-step guide with photos to walk you
through your replacement. so why not learn a new hobby while saving yourself some time
and money at the same time. check out ifixit.com/ltt to find fixed kits for your devices today. thanks for watching guys. if you're looking for something
more exciting to watch, go check out our ios 15 video. because it's what's on
the inside that counts. kathryn bigelow says will birth
a whole new genre of cinema. (david laughing) - what's wrong with you, david? (men laughing)