- there are a ton of weird
gadgets and gizmos on tiktok, but today we're putting them to the test. now on "this is" we've taken a look at some weird stuff from tiktok, but today we're looking for
the good, the bad, the ugly. (dramatic music) spending too much time on
your phone is not good. touching grass is good. and sometimes, because
you're so compulsively checking every notification from the austin evans youtube channel... subscribe. that you just gotta take a second and look at your phone in a locked box. so we've got ourselves... oh, it's just a clear box. okay, i don't know what i expected. it does have a usb-c as well as a... oh, is it like a key? wait, what? it's got usb-c and lightning on the side? all right, let's try it. i'm gonna close it up. double click. and we're gonna go for... i'll let you go for one minute. it doesn't really matter. all right, so it's gonna do the ten-second countdown. so once you double click it, you have 10 seconds to change your mind. make sure your phone is
adjusted however you want. but now, three, two... okay. my phone is in there so i'm forced to listen
to matt this entire time. but the nice thing is, with these holes, i can actually
kinda scroll a little bit, like it's actually not terrible. and i can also do this part too. now, mind you, you could
definitely get your phone in a bad spot, but i actually
do kind of understand this. there's also a hole on the bottom where you can plug your phone in. for 24 bucks, i'll give
them a pass on this. you know what, tiktok? not bad. are these the world-famous boney buds? boney space buds, not boner buds, like i keep accidentally calling them. i've seen these before on tiktok. i'm not sure these specific
ones or some similar ones, but they're bone conduction headphones. now, if you're not familiar,
bone conduction is a real... well, they will, if i try it. there we go. oh. bone conduction headphones work by, instead of actually playing
like little speakers for your ear holes, instead
it vibrates the bones that go into your ears. 'cause i don't know if
you knew this or not, there are bones in your ears,
and they go (imitates trumpet) and then that turns into music. i've tried bone conduction in the past, but tiktok seems to love these things. so let's take a look. the problem with bone conduction, as you might expect from something that has to be transmitted
through the inner ear bones, is that it don't
typically sound very good, and it being this cheap
is almost probably worse. so we're talking about 20
bucks for these, which, ah, i mean, like, sure, i guess
it's about what you would pay for a somewhat decent pair of in-ear buds. but these are... well, they're not in ear, they're ear. small case. i'll give them that. and we open it up. boy, that is a shape
if i've ever seen one. dude, looks so weird. the case having, it looks like you've got like four sets of earbuds. now the problem is, i just,
it's not an intuitive shape. oh, i thought i broke them. oh no, i did break them. look! look! they split, like, look, do you see what they're... literally, they're splitting right now. i thought that was like,
that was, like, the button. i barely even touched them. look, they're literally broken already. did i just break my boner buds? there's no way that people do this. this is not a thing. - [matt] there's... your ears are so red. - yeah. okay, so i'm trying to get that roughly, but there's no way that that's it because it's like, it's
just pointing it in my ear. there's like, there's no way that... i'm doing something wrong, right? there's no way they're this bad. dude, this is dumb. no, i'm over it. boner buds, you need to pop a pill-
- my friends, they went limp? - they were limp to begin with and they never got any better. can you enlighten me? what is the interactive car gadget? the geshowit? - [matt] you know when the guy behind you is kinda being a little jerky face? - yeah, like...
- and you wanna tell him that? - yeah.
- you can't- - i roll my window down and flip him off. - [matt] well, have i
got the product for you. because now you don't
have to strain yourself. - so, "interactive car gadget. gesture 1: flipping him the bird. gesture 2: saying hello to others. gesture 3: showing your
love to others, thank you." how is anyone gonna know? like, this is so much work. my hands are attached to my arms. they are great and functional. - california driving code
says you keep your hands at 10 and 2 at all times. - [austin] we have ourselves- - [matt] (laughs) why is it so thick? - it is actually quite thick. so i guess this just
attaches to your window. and then you've got the
remote control here, which will either give
you the middle finger, the wave, or the the hook 'em horns. time to go flip some people off. theoretically this is going
to be very straightforward. i had to put in some aa batteries here, but if i press the button... oh, it's not working. okay, i think, hey, there we go. all right. the battery terminals
are really bad on this, but technically it is now functioning. so if i press the button,
we can do, there we go. so i can hit the the wave
button, the hook 'em horns. (austin laughs) so i guess what i'll do is, i'll mount it something like this. well, here's a problem, i'm realizing. this glass here is curved. so, not only is a problem in this 4runner, because this window can roll down. so if i ever rolled it down,
that would be a problem, which, i like rolling the window down. but also the glass is so curved i don't know how well it's gonna stay. it'll probably stay okay, but... hey look, you can see it! so the remote also comes with a little bit of adhesive and velcro. so if you really care about this thing, you can have it mounted, like, to your dashboard or something, and just immediately,
just smash the button. all right. i mean, it does do exactly
what they say it does. the remote works fine,
it's all battery powered. it's pretty easy to install. i still somewhat struggle
with the idea of, like, what's the point? i mean, are you so polite that, like, someone cuts you off and
you're like, (growls). beep. (growls) but that just seems a little bit strange. but you know what? tiktok, it works exactly
the way you advertise. next up we have the
smart watch tws headset. now, we've looked at one of
these before on "mystery tech." it is a smartwatch that has
a pair of earbuds inside. now, the ones i've looked
at in the past were cheap and really terrible,
but according to tiktok, this is actually good. okay, well, we got some stuff. so we got ourselves a band, we have our little earbuds,
and the watch itself. yeah, that actually looks
like a fairly nice watch and it does have a sensor of some kind. i'm assuming it's a heart
rate sensor or something. oh, yo, that's cool. yo! wait, wait, wait. that's actually cool. and it's, like, seriously magnetized. i, you know what? i'm actually kind of about this. so i'm gonna line up my
earbuds on the inside with the pogo pins facing upward. boom. wow. okay, you know what? we've got ourselves a watch
and it's all set to go. so i like how the apple
watch says i'm at 66, and this watch thinks i'm at 82. hmm, i wonder which one i'm gonna trust. yeah, you know what? my right side is like
(imitates heart beating). let's see here. how about blood pressure? tell me about blood pressure. oh, i'm 105 over 75. okay, i definitely trust that. that's definitely a real
blood pressure number that i would have right now. - [matt] can i borrow
that to show my doctor? (austin laughs) - apple watch doesn't... oh, i'm at 99%. oh, i'm 96%. oh, i'm 99%. it is wildly varying on the other one. apple watch says i'm at 99. this one says anywhere between 96 and 99. but i suspect that's
just making up numbers like the other numbers it's giving me. this is my favorite part of it. like, it's a really
strong, like, mechanism, and the screen still works and everything. that's actually really nice. so, pull my buds out. okay. and they're blinking, so i assume that they're gonna be good. i don't know which one's right or left, so i'm just gonna just give it a try. oh, they're so small. so now i am paired with everything. so, let me do this. let me play some music, and i'll see if i can
control it from the watch. these are not bad actually. woo! damn, son. okay, so, first of all, they're loud. i was like, "oh," i thought
i had them at max volume. i had them at half volume. as with most of these
earbuds, a lot of bass. and considering how tiny
they are, honestly not bad. now, the fit is, i
think, kinda interesting, because they kinda have to tuck, like, all the way in your ears, right? so for me to put it in like that, what it looks like when
it's all the way in. so it's like, pretty much flush. but considering that when i'm done, these go straight back into my watch. like, how cool is that? boom. i like the earbuds way
more than the watch. the watch seems really basic. like, it's crazy to me, and maybe i'm missing some
setting in here somewhere. it's crazy to me that i cannot control my music from this. for 70 bucks, if you just care
about a mediocre smartwatch and honestly, like, fairly decent earbuds that are all in one package. tiktok, man, you're not kidding. this thing is actually, like, it's way better than any
of these other, like, earbud combinations
i've ever tried before. tiktok, what you got next? the power factor saver. easy and simple. okay, "just plug it in." exclamation point, exclamation
point, exclamation point. i don't really fully
understand what i've got here, but i'm gonna suspect it's a scam. - [matt] it's a power... it's, well, supposed to
be a power conditioner. - you just plug this into your wall. - [matt] dude, i'm cutting this thing, i'm cutting this thing open. - well, come here, come take a look at it. okay, there's some technical parameters that you need to learn. the useful load is 28,000
watts, 28 kilowatts. - cool.
- this is the useful load. - most breakers do about 2,000. - yep, yep, yep. if i understand this right,
you plug this into your wall and then it magically makes
all your electricity not spiky. oh my god, that's not anything. that is not a thing. that's not a thing. - we have a very ominous
black box that is hard glued. - let's see what happens
when we plug this in. so i'm gonna plug it into power here. the led turns on and suddenly
our power has been saved. - you know what this is, in the black box? it's a buck converter. - okay.
- to go from 110 to 12 volt, to power the led. - so basically, you plug this in, and it is an led, and that is it. wow. matt's doing something
dangerous, everyone get ready. so you're gonna plug it in
without everything on it. -[matt] cha! yeah. so all of this is just the power of this one led behind this. - well, i'm not sure who told
me to buy this thing, but... and in case you ever see
this on tiktok or amazon, or something, it's clearly,
very clearly, a scam. what is this? the youpai... uh, switch dock? oh, oh, oh. is this one of those
automatic poker dealers? the way this works is
that you load up a deck of playing cards. i think you actually should tell, like, how many people you have, and it go, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep. let's give it a try. unfortunately, i don't think
one word of this is in english, so i'm gonna have to try
to figure it out myself. sure, let's just play
it and see what happens. so i'm gonna put this in the middle and see if it actually wants to deal. ready? everybody ready? (soft upbeat music) whoa, it does the thing! it does the thing! that is actually so cool. who wants to play? who wants to play? okay, so we're gonna
set it for three players and five cards each. oh, it's like the three of us are close. - i think those extra buttons were- - dude, there's no way you can tell me that you can deal that fast, no shot. - yo... (imitates cards sliding) - no, no shot. - call me gambit 'cause... these are good cards. i need to be dealt too-
- oh, wait, how do we do this part? - yeah.
- wait, hold on, hold on, wait, - dude, i got, i got-
- please, please. - i got-
- help me, help me... spit two cards out. (machine whirs) oh, you can... oh, that makes sense. okay, got it. - notice how he always like, "there's no way to do anything," and then we come in and show
him how to do it immediately? - okay, okay. well, since we didn't bet anything, i guess we just gotta show our hands. - yeah. - all right. - [joanna] but i don't want to. (matt and austin laugh) - [matt] queen high. - queen high? i got two, i got duces. - i was going for a straight,
but i didn't get it. - so that means i win! yeah, let's go! boy! i-
- can't with you, austin evans.
- how much was this? - [alex] it was $130.
(wind whooshes) - okay, it's a little expensive, considering-
- and it doesn't even shuffle!
- it's not gonna shuffle. okay, it's a little expensive, but you're talking about a neat gadget. like, this is what tiktok is for. besides feeling bad about yourself. you get to find out that
something neat like this existed. i had no idea. so next up we've got the fingerbot. which is a smart controller
for any button and switch. this theoretically might be one of the most useful items that i've seen. a lot of the stuff that we
looked at today is, like, weird or entertaining. this is, like, actually,
like, a cool idea. like, i can think of a
couple of things in my house that i would hook up
a bluetooth finger to. so this is the finger pusher. so, now that it's on, i can
manually press the button, (fingerbot whirs) and it pushes. or i can use the app. so i can actually change
the down movement, the up movement, and sustain time. so let's do the up movement is 50% and the down movement to be 70%. so let's try that. (fingerbot whirs) oh, interesting. so, yeah, so i guess using
the app, you can adjust it. so say i mount it and i want it to come up and then down just a little bit. so maybe you actually
could tune this just right as it wiggles, to, like, push
the switch up to the point where it turns on and then you let go, and it will pull the switch back if you kinda get that point
of tension just right. all right. who's got something that i can
use my bluetooth finger on? - [matt] we can add it to the dmx board. - do it!
- so you can turn the studio on/off.
- let's do it! okay. so this is our lighting console. so with this i can change
all kinds of stuff, like the lighting in the studio, to all kinds of different things. what i could also do is just
set it over the power button. and i'll set it over this button. and if i press it, theoretically, it will be able to be powerful enough to shut off all the lights. are we ready to give it a try? - [matt] yeah. - oh wait, what? it's not strong enough. i'm gonna hold it down. ready, set. - [both] yeah! - it works! - [alex] i'm scared. - look at that! amazing. - [matt] now our dumb studio's smart. - next up we have the linq. not to be confused with
the linq in las vegas, which is spelled the exact same way. no, this is the linq bracelet stretch, which is the better way to network. is this a... wait, okay. lemme take a guess. is this an nfc business card? - yeah.
- is it really? - yeah.
- oh, that's stupid. why? also, wait, that's it? - [matt] well, your a tiny little- - well, i don't have that small of wrists. - [matt] you're a tiny
little twig person, so... okay. - it feels like i'm about to get a shot. you know, like they put
a little tourniquet on- - you look like you're ready for- - hugs.
- right now. - please hold while i
set up my business card. "looking good," fire emoji. - [matt] (chuckles) is
the app flirting with you? [music] wake up in the morning
feeling like p diddy [music] (vlogger speaks indistinctly) - okay. all right. - nice to meet you.
- okay. that's problematic in a lot of ways. matt, you want to reenact that? (both laugh) i'll be the girl with the
the linqy popple thing. you just be a random creeper
who i'm gonna walk by. okay, ready? and action. - oh my god, is that-
- hey, what's up? - yeah, just-
- oh yeah, you can touch, for sure. of course, bye, see you later. did it work? - no. (both cackle) oh my god, is that everyday inventions? - well, oh, hey, what's up? oh, that's- - wait. - that's a little aggressive. oh, okay, all right, yeah. okay. yep. no problems- - for the record, nothing- - great to meet you. all right, have a good one. see ya.
- yeah, yeah. oh my god, a random white dude here. just-
(austin cackles) - see ya!
- got his insta. (austin laughs) - how much was the linq? can we confirm the prices? - so that is the old
version that they have. - okay.
- that's like a v1 or whatever. so we don't have pricing on that but, so for the v3, so we're v3 now.
- like, it's 20 bucks. - it's 20 bucks. (wind whooshes) - this is dumb and you shouldn't buy it. also, you shouldn't aggressively try to scan people in any way. - [matt] every trade
show i've ever been to has aggressively tried to scan me. - that's fair, actually. most of the time you shouldn't try to
aggressively scan people. now this box is interesting
because it says keyboard, but i just, i don't have, you know, big chungus hands or anything, but that seems a little small. first flaw, microusb. we almost made it through a whole video. so here's the problem. i can see the ribbon cable. do you see the ribbon cable right there? the orange ribbon cable. it's very obviously right there. and you can see the backside of here. i shouldn't be able to,
like, with my fingernail, basically break the keyboard
with the ribbon cable. so that's, like, my first problem. it's a, basically, mini keyboard. so the concept here is that
you carry this with you and when you sit down and
you need do some email, you pull the little phone
holder out, unfold this. and then you pair it
as a bluetooth device, drop your phone on it,
and you can type away. so, for context, this is the size of a normal keyboard, okay? oh, it's so small. dude, my whole hand covers it. okay, i'm gonna give it a try. this is not gonna be good though. ready. set. 43 words per minute, 89% accuracy. i'm gonna write an angry tweet. they're missing keys! the quote and the... oh my god, you have to hold
function to get the apostrophe. oh good. no, this is not it. hmm. okay, how much was this? - [alex] $53. - this is actually close
to being a good product. bow? how about not now? how about kachow? okay, i've gotta level with you. we have been sponsored
by ugreen in the past, terrific company. what exactly is unique about a
car bluetooth audio receiver? so as far as i can see, you just plug this into
the aux on your car and then it will give you bluetooth, which is especially nice if you have a car that doesn't have bluetooth
or carplay or android auto. hey, oh, usb-c. ugreen, you know what's up. all right. so this seems like it's quite simple. so you have a button
which will either start or stop your call, i assume,
or play or pause your music. you got a plus and minus,
you have a mic on here, which i guess is important because if you're trying
to take a bluetooth call, your car stereo will work
for the actual audio out. but there needs to be
some kind of microphone. so that's actually a
pretty clever inclusion. you've got yourself a 3.5 mm and then you've got usb-c. so first step with ugreen is i'm going to get it powered up. so, in my car i actually have
my aux and my usb down here. so, you know, one thing
i'm realizing though, is that because my aux
is in the center console, the mic wouldn't work. because if i had this closed, obviously it's a cleaner setup, but you wouldn't be able
to hear me for calls. so let's just play a video real quick and see if it works. that was well done. i just attended-
- uh. - microsoft.
- i mean, it works. (chill music) so you know what? audio quality actually not bad. hello, can you hear us? - [alex] yes, i can hear you. it's not the most clear. - so here, lemme just,
i'm gonna tap the mic. tell me, do you hear this? - yes.
- okay. - [alex] yes, i can hear that. it's very loud when you do that. - okay, so you're hearing it. so this is what it sounds like. so i'm just gonna just pretend
like, ah, ta-da, ta-da. oh, i'm talking and driving. does this sound passable as, like, a bluetooth setup in your car? - [alex] no, it sounds pretty terrible. like, i would prefer it if you just put yourself on
speaker phone on your own phone. - how about now? how does it sound on speaker? - [alex] it sounds much more clear. - okay. so if you've got an older car
and you don't have bluetooth, i will say this is a much cheaper and easier way of adding bluetooth to your existing car versus getting like, an
entirely new head unit. i just wish it maybe
sounded a little bit better, but other than that,
kinda hard to complain. tiktok, man, you got some good stuff. hey, what's up?
- yeah, just- - oh yeah, you can touch it- sure.
- bye, see you later.