- [linus] the ultimate
diy gaming experience. set the airflow to 11. perhaps not sensible, but extreme and awesome. these are all things that cooler master has said about the new haf 700. but is it just really heavy or is it also all that stuff? oh god. oh my god, i'm gonna blow a sphincter. to find out, we got the fastest and hottest gaming
components on the market and we're gonna be putting
this case up against an open air test bench to
see if it's claims hold true. or if it's like the other half
of cooler master's products. thanks to origin pc for
sponsoring this video. origin's newest line of
custom gaming desktops offers intel's latest 12th
gen alder lake processors ddr5 memory and free lifetime
24/7 us based support. learn more at the link
in the video description. (upbeat music) well, this is about as
hungry as it gets these days ain't it? - [alex] oh, well, especially that gpu. - okay. - [alex] have you noticed
anything different about it? - well, what i noticed
is there was a little bit of goop on the p mode, q mode switch. - [alex] i was thinking more so you'd notice like the holes
in the back plate, but. - okay. i mean, can this
cooler even handle it? - [alex] no, it's slower than stock. - oh god. - this isn't a video about
the test bench launch, just build a pc. - got my jerryrigeverything box cutter. now we don't have a price for this thing but based on the fact
that it weighs 25 kilos that is about 55 pounds
for our american friends. i can tell you, it's probably
not going to be cheap. - hey linus, linus, linus, linus. there's instructions on
the top of how to open it. - oh? - fortunately you did find the tool thing, it's in a bad location from
the factory in this one. it's changing for the production unit. - oh yeah. it's like hidden. boom. you wouldn't notice it if
this got stuck in here. there it is. holy crap. are these all glass? - [alex] yeah. - wow. that is a really
aggressive looking design. - [alex] oh my god. yeah. - [linus] look how fricking
wide this thing is. they were like, no, it's
not wide enough yet. let's put the io on the wide. see, it's not really the side. it's the wide. the side of the wide. oh, this is gonna be tedious. - [alex] oh, save a couple
for later when they're lit up. - [andy] or we can keep it. - oh my god. no. oh no and these middle ones are split. we're at the point now where computer cases are
getting so complicated, they're gonna have to
start having like a pdi delivery and inspection fee. in terms of features at the front, we've got our reset and power switches, our microphone and headphone jack, four usb 3 type a ports, usb type c. and this display can
show system information like temperatures and rpms, kind of whatever you want to show on it. it is so heavy. okay. is the paint supposed
to be something special? - [alex] yeah. this is a pre-production and they found in shipping them to people that the paint gets a bit scuffed up. - oh, got it. okay. you can actually really tell
how engineering sample it is, in spots like this. one other change in the
production version is they wanted this to be totally toolless but they're gonna add a screw here because apparently they ran into issues where people would pick it up and it would pop off, which
could be really, really bad. you could kill a man with this thing. tempered glass side panels. vibration dampeners. magnetic filters. whoa. that's where the weight is. - ooh. oh yeah. that is weighty. - that is substantial. that's what thick fricking
tempered glass will do for you. wow. are these'0 mm? - [alex] 200. - 200 mm. - [alex] they don't tell
you how fast they go though. so i kind of want to
just try that right now. - two 200 mms in the front, a 120 drawing in there at the bottom and then two 120s at the back. and it looks like holy shnikes. you could load the top up with. - [alex] you can fit six 120s up there. - [linus] freaking what? oh my god. there's so many front panel
connectors on this thing. it's like a bundle this
thick between all the fans and usb and power switch
and everything here. - oh. - you wanna over volt them don't you? - yeah. i wanna see what
they do at 17 volts. - how did i know that was coming? it's almost like we've been
working together for five years. oh, this is cool. they've got a cable management or rather a don't bother cable management panel on the back here. and you basically just go. yep. i don't wanna see
any of that anymore. and you cover it up. - we need to stick a sticker. - i guess just like put it here. - [alex] sure. wow. it takes a long time
to ramp up at five volts. - give her some more juice.
let's see like seven volts. yep. so we ended up at around 7.50. so let's see 12 volt now. now we're moving. this is
over a thousand rpm now. that is a substantial
amount of air movement. - [alex] i guess that's what
they call turning it up to 11. maybe they meant 1100 rpm. - [linus] all things
considered, it is not loud. - no, not at all it. - hit a current limit again.
it doesn't wanna go to faster? - [alex] really? - it's going down. - oh, it's smoking. - it's dead. - i think when we
started it with 17 volts. - oh crap. oh, it stinks. it's a good thing it doesn't turn on. it'll blow its smell towards you. here you go, alex. - ugh.
- this is your doing. can you start helping me build this thing? because it's pretty clear this
is gonna take a team effort. - i do feel kind of bad. we don't have any more cooler master fans and using these lian-li ones instead. but they do clip together.
it's pretty nice. - yeah, those are super cool. - yeah. - [linus] power lead just barely reaches the integrated power hub. wow. this thing has two
integrated rgv hubs? one here, one here. - [alex] damn.
- holy crap. it's loaded for bear. oh, i'm gonna leave this for now. that looks like an absolute
fingerprint magnet. we're gonna take that off last. oh my goodness. it's still heavy. now's probably a good
time to take a closer look at our test bench. we've got a 12900k on
a z690 maximus extreme that hopefully has the
capacitor on the right way. you know with how many
motherboards still have 5.1 analog outputs. we should just do like an aliexpress surround sound speaker setup. get subscribed if you guys wanna see that. these cable management grommets don't appear to be compatible
with the back plate on this motherboard. oh. oh my finger. holy crap. even without the grommets it's still right up against
the motherboard tray. - look at the cooler
compatibility from the side. - is this supposed to
be coming off like this? - oh the whole thing's moving - now a really cool feature
of this case, by the way we've gone with a 1300 watt
power supply from seasonic because our gpu now draws
about 800 watts on its own. it's that cooler master set out to make the power supply installation
completely toolless so two of what would
normally be screw holes have been replaced with pins that go into the back of the power supply. and the other two, are thumb screws. like really hold it in place. how the freak many hard
drives can go in here. at least two, three,
another four that's seven. there were two more on that
mid plate. that's nine. - [alex] apparently the hard
drives are all toolless too. to put those in of course. - oh really? - [alex] yep. they have
rubber instead of screws. do you want to go horizontal
or vertical in the gpu? - i think we should let
at the people decide. let's just have them use the thumbs up and thumbs down on the video. thumbs up, if you want vertical. thumbs down, if you want
a conventional mount. (upbeat music) they're all thumbs up. - wow.
- wow. let's go vertical. - so this also has toolless gpu mounting. - ah. how are those toolless? they're just posts. - including with the
case, is this fairly nice gen 4 pcie riser. smells
kind of weird though. - oh, that's super weird. - [andy] can i smell it? - sure, andy. - we got some weird kinks around here. thunderbolt 4. like what the hell? what would you connect via thunderbolt that you would want inside your computer? oh, i had a fart. but i feel
like if i let that one go, i'd get some solid so. i love that the theme of this
build is abused hardware. we've got the shunt modded gpu, the motherboard that
was prepped for subzero. - we've got the fan. - that's not abused. that's dead. this is ridiculously easy to cable manage. basically just cram all
the stuff in the thing and then close up the latches
and then, cover the thing. - do you think that six fans is enough? - no. - we can add two more in the bottom. - let's do it the hell am i looking at here? triple reservoir pump
combos using these brackets. just in case you're into it. - i really, really appreciate
these radiator mounts that just come out and you're able to attach
the fans and stuff. all of our sleepers and a lot of the custom
work that i've done. i've just stolen these from master cases and this one's even better. - alex. i have some concerns about negative static pressure here. i think we need more fans. - yeah, i'm already working on that linus. - yes you are. all right. okay. i don't actually know
how to wire this thing up. i just put this on the
middle pin of the bottom one and it just completely snapped off. - i got pricing from cooler master, how much do you think it is? - i'm guessing $3.49 us. - the global price is $500 us and in the us because tariffs, it's $650. yeah. that's more than
i thought it would be. and i thought it would
be really expensive. - so this is like a 10000d
competitor in the way that they're looking at it. well now i feel stupid that
this is our first kind of case review in a hundred years. and that's one that
nobody's gonna actually buy. don't put that video, but
look at this space here. - [alex] yeah, i almost feel like we should have water cooled it, just to fill up that void. - we ready to fire it up? - are we? - we did a little bit of cable management. - yeah. lot of cable management. - it's good looking. i gotta give it that. - i wanna do this the dirty,
like in my intel upgrade where instead of like doing it properly, you just put it straight
through and tie it. - yeah. - it's terrible. - i think you mean tight and perfect. you know, they say that
beggars can't be choosers. - what? i'm not a beggar.
i could buy my own pc. i'm an influencer now, linus. - i'll cover it. no one will ever know. - oh, nice. - right? - oh. that's my favorite
kind of cable management. - oh crap, this isn't gonna work. oh, there's a little arrow
indicating where it goes. if these were data cables,
we would not do this. oh shoot. there's an rgb lead here. wrap. it's heavy now. - you're saying that like it
wasn't in the first place. - well, it's more now. i forget how this worked. oh, there, there we go.
there was another step back. okay. yeah. cool. cool, cool, cool. oh, we never put this
hard drive cage back in. bye. bye. moment of truth. i didn't even show the cool little block that it had for all of the
front panel connectors. - yeah. you also didn't
turn the power supply on. - oh, well. that looks really cool. - [alex] but why are
none of our fans working? - ah.
- like actually none of them. - this one is working. - that's the one that we
plugged into the motherboard. - [linus] okay. so maybe we
didn't plug in the fan hub. and all the panels are coming off. let there be light. - is it okay to plug in usb
headers when the system's on? - i mean, no, but yes. awesome. - okay. ouch. - screen's on?
- yep. - yay. - [alex] what's the screen showing? make it yours. - what? the $500 isn't
enough to make it mine? if you look here, you can see they probably
wanted to do curved glass here but like corsair probably discovered that it was cost prohibitive. remember that early
prototype of the 10000d? - yes.
- [alex] oh yeah. - [linus] what's the
resolution of this display? - [alex] i don't know,
it looks pretty good. - [linus] it looks great. this is why you should
never give your friends your computer's password. should we get the smoke machine? while we wait for the
smoke machine to fire up, why don't you talk me through
what we're doing here? so we got prime95, furmark
running concurrently. i see what you mean about the gpu. how high did the thermals go on this? so it's power limited then. - no, it's thermals limited. probably the memory is at 112. that's probably what's
limiting is right now or 110 at the temperatures
of the cpu or the gpu, we're going to be looking at four o'clock. yeah. - this top exhaust doesn't
even feel like it's heated up, rear exhaust, yes. coming right off the cpu cooler here. is it over clocked? - nope. this is stock. it's doing 4.9 ghz. - let's get fogged up. (machine buzzing) hello? do we have fluid? yeah. (machine buzzing) bang. oh. i told them, order the good one and they came back to me with this. - [alex] i have an idea.
do we still have ln2 here? (container squeaking) - sorry. - how are we looking? - [alex] well, i'm not
able to see like anything. - you can't see anything? - just immediately disappears.
there's so much airflow. - okay. - it looks like it's going
in. and then probably up out. - damn. i wish our smoke
machine was working. how do our results look? - marginally worse i would say. - turns out fans work,
but there's no substitute for just drawing completely
fresh ambient air in. - i'm actually surprised. - oh, i'm not. i mean, it's like damn. - as for the gpu. it's identical. the clock speeds. temperatures are both
effectively the same. - and you should know it's
about a half a degree cooler in here now in the case
than it was before. so for an air cooled build, is it as good as literally putting your
motherboard on a cardboard box? no. meaning it's not the best bang for the buck case on the market but i don't think that's what
cooler master was going for with the haf 700 evo. as for the looks, maybe polarizing personally. i think it looks really cool. and i think especially
for a water cooled build. man, could you ever do
a cool loop in here? - two radiators up top. - use this to feed them with fresh air another radiator in the bottom. man. - loads of pump spots. - dead silent. (white noise playing) micro center, gives you the best prices and best selection on computer hardware and everything else technology at all of their 25
locations across the us. you can check out micro
center's custom pc builder to spec out the best pc for your budget. they'll ensure that all of
your parts are compatible. find stock available for you at the nearest micro center location. then just add it to your cart and you can arrange for
same day in store pickup. for a fee, you can check the box
marked same day pro assembly and one of micro center's
expert technicians will assemble your pc for you. if you need help deciding what parts to put in
your custom gaming pc. join the online micro center community. it's a great place to discuss
tech with other enthusiasts. and new micro center customers can even get a free 128 gb flash drive and 128 gb micro sd card
at the link down below. no purchase necessary, valid in store only limit
one coupon per customer. if you guys are looking
for another video to watch maybe check out the
last time we did a build on a cooler master haf case. when we used a two horsepower fan. that had the most airflow.