- hello and welcome to mystery tech. hopefully you're finding this episode to be thoroughly delightful. no, stop! no! stop it! stop it! stop it! at least you didn't throw it this time. oh no. wait, is this a
gigabyte m28u monitor? - [ken] don't break it this time. (smpte color screen sound effect) - [austin] i'm just. (giggling) (wailing) oh my god! - [ken] you. (smpte color screen sound effect) - [ken] if you do break it. - you have this second monitor? - [ken] and if you break that one. the fi32u, a third monitor. - [ken] you break that one. - it's okay. is there another one? the 43u! did you just bring in
four gigabyte aorus monitors? how much are four gigabyte aorus monitors? - [ken] well, they're
sponsoring today's video so, well for us nothing! - oh boy, this is great news. this is the m28u. so this is a 4k display. like all these monitors, they will do 120 hertz over hdmi 2.1 which is especially important. if you're using a ps5 or an xbox series x. but if you connect it to
a pc over display port, you can get all the way
up to 4k, 144 hertz. i'm going to open this up from the front and i'm going to hope it
comes out very smoothly. - [ken] is that really the way? - yeah, it is the way,
because the top doesn't open. there are instructions on the top, but i'm not going to read them. okay. ready? and that's fine. that's the way that's
supposed to be done. okay. why hello friends! look
at my fine new setup. so with the power of the
kvm built inside my monitor, i can very quickly go from the
incredibly smooth 140 hertz on the windows side with
one single button press. it will then flip over to
the usbc on the macbook. now you can plug in a wide
variety of different devices, but the real idea here behind
the kvm is, not only can you switch inputs between different computers but you can also move your devices. so now if i start moving my mouse around, i will have the ability to
control it on the macbook. same thing if i want to pull
up something i can now type, "this is a bad idea. this is ken's pc." i don't want to search on that. then we can step up to the fi32u. this is a 32 inch display
which still does 4k. it still does 120 hertz over hdmi 2.1 or 144 over display port. but this has some major new features. so first and foremost it is look, i'm going to say it, it's a big chungus. i just said it. look i
didn't want to say it, but i had to say it, right. this is a huge display, but because it has so many cool
features, it really does pop. so not only do you have the
excellent image quality, right? which we'll get into in a second, but you also have the
rgb fusion on the back, including on the stand. and one of my favorite
features is it has a hi-fi dac. let's listen to the hi-fi dac. shall we? [music] we should be dancing,
romancing in the kitchen [music] [music] in the east wing and the west wing [music] [music] of this mansion, what's happening? [music] [music] i ain't playing no games [music] next we have the aorus fv43u. - [ken] where did you come from? - improved tactical gaming monitor with a massive 43 inch large
format gaming display still 4k, still 144 hertz or 120 hertz
for our console friends. but this is where gaming gets serious. this looks ridiculous! another thing this monitor
has going for it is a blisteringly bright
1000 nits of brightness! so for context right now,
we're recording this at i believe it's a 10%
brightness? no, 17% brightness. okay. ready to crank it to 100? - [ken] oh boy. - 1000 nits of brightness activate! - [ken] oh my god. - woo! this is 1000 nits of gaming glory. i oh, oh, ah, woo! oh, thank you, matt. i need sunglasses because
the 1000 nits of brightness. actually know what the sunglasses help. this looks now great. and to round out our glorious quintet of
gigabyte aorus monitors. we have the biggest of them all. the brand new fo48u oled
display. yes my friends! i said, oled not "no-led",
not "old led", oled. which means that not only
are you going to get some of the most pristine image quality possible, but you're getting a package
which is custom designed for not only consoles like our
slightly modified playstation five and xbox series x but of
course, for the pc as well. what i would love to let you listen to is the space audio that is built in to actually all of the monitors but i think it sounds best on the 48. (space audio plays) not only do you have 98%. dci-p3 color space
covered and 130% of srgb which makes it great for content creation. but you also have the
incredibly high quality panel, which makes the hdr10 look
great. and on top of that, nah, i'm forgetting something. what
am i forgetting right now? - [matt] still 120 hertz. - oh yeah. 120 hertz. i've never had my eyes treated
better than with this amazing selection of gigabyte aorus monitors which you can check out the
links in the description. big thank you to gigabyte
aorus for sponsoring this episode of mystery tech.
now, if you'll excuse me, i'm going to go game on all
four of these displays at once. (upbeat music) - never take your eyes off the target. - [matt] what are you doing? never take your eyes off the target, matt. - [matt] what are you doing? - got it. got it. - welcome to mystery tech and
the razer (unintelligible) the razer.. - [matt] anzu! - anzu, thank you very much.
the razer anzu smart glasses. low latency audio, oh! these kinds of things
have been around. in fact, i actually think we took a look at one of these kinds of
things on mystery tech once. some glasses with some
speakers or whatever. but this is from our friends
over at razer who i'm sure have done a much better job
and have delivered a high quality gaming component. i like how you got me the large glasses. i'm not sure if you're trying
to tell me i have a big head or my face is just too much
for one person to love. - [matt] are you not the model
for "mars attacks!"? hah! - what? so i might have a little challenge actually using these without having to put my regular glasses on underneath. - [ken] let me see your glasses. - no. - [matt] no, let me. - don't break my, i don't have
any other pairs of glasses. if you break those, i'm going to be blind. that's just it. you just
took off my glasses. is that the whole gag?
you, i just can't see now. - [ken] yeah. - oh, there's two things. okay. look at all this
stuff i need to read now. well, i've got to say
that's a beefy glasses case. it's beefy just because the
glasses are beefy. okay. oh, it's already trying to pair. do i look cool? how do i look right now? - [matt] how do you somehow look nerdier? - [ken] if you stand outside
long enough with those on someone will just walk up and bully you. - [matt] i mean, i feel
like bullying right now. - we're upgrading the
firmware of my glasses. - [matt] great. - you know what? i am
a compulsive updater. have i ever talked about this before? we can be like right about
to start filming a video. and i see like some bios
update. i just got to do it. i can't, i can't not update my things. - [ken] you just don't
hit the later button. no, i actually very regularly
hit the yes, do it now. and i'll wait 30 minutes
and watch the progress bar. - [ken] i'm like six months
behind on mac os updates. - that makes me uncomfortable. i'm a little itchy hearing that. how much are the razer
anzu gaming glasses? - [ken] they're probably like 200 bucks. - [matt] $200. - oh, okay. well hopefully
they sound really good. we're up to date so you
can completely customize. so single press to play,
double tap, triple tap, et cetera, et cetera. it's
all fine. it makes sense. eq, we want to do default
and that's pretty much it. so let's listen to some music, and see what these things sound like. (rap music begins and pauses) i did it. you have to
press that very hard. wait, okay. the touch controls are a little bit weird. - [ken] yeah, i would look
at you weird on the train. and then bully you and take your money. - i mean, they don't sound great. it sounds like i'm listening
to a bluetooth speaker like on the table. it's good, but it's not, it's,
i would say it's acceptable. okay. how about i set these down on the table and see what they sound like. oh yeah, you can definitely hear those. all right. that's not great. - so i've tried the bose smart frames. i've tried the echo frames
or whatever they are. these sound the best. i mean, you definitely get a lot of
volume out of them, but yeah, - [austin] yeah. - but, yeah you can't get
around that bleeding, huh? - and it makes for gaming though, right? if you're just like, especially
with that low latency mode. if you just don't need necessarily like, an amazing audio experience but you just want to be able to hear your game in a sort of crowded area or something. - look, all i know is if
i'm seeing someone playing some call of duty mobile
or pub g mobile at the pool and i hear gunshots coming
out of these headphones. (laughing) - you would. - i mean these glasses. i
would definitely get annoyed at the person i'm sitting next to or probably even a couple
of seats down at the pool. - yeah. - that that's just way too loud. - [austin] these are kind of cool. i get the fact that, you
know, gaming glasses, smart glasses, but essentially
what these things are, are bluetooth headphones
that are just in the glasses that point towards your ears.
that's really what they are. and yes, it's nice. they come with like
polarized lenses. sweet. but i mean, as someone who needs
actual prescription lenses, that's a major concern and
i just scratched up the lens probably. so i'm just
going to put that back. (groaning) sorry, matt. - now your future stolen razor
glasses are going to have mildly scratched sunglass lenses. is this the xbox mystery tech? hello welcome to the xbox series x. the latest in cutting edge gaming console. did i get scammed by buying this xbox or something this time? is there a ps5 built into the
back of this wonderful monitor or is there a generic brown
box on the table? okay. - [ken] this is, this is for us. - what do you mean this is
for us? this is for you. - [ken] open it. - [ken] no it's for us.
it's for us for the office. - oh, an xbox controller. okay. - [ken] i don't know if
you know a thing or two about a certain design lab. - oh, this is the design
lab series x controller. okay. all right, all right all right. i was very confused for a
moment. so did you design this? - [ken] yes - okay, i am slightly excited
and slightly concerned, which is a great
combination for this video. oh, all right! that's a good colorway friends. oh, you've got a little slash
slash overclock on it too. - [ken] yeah. - cool! you know what this reminds me of? a little bit of the colorway; do you remember the pubg,
the kfc chicken controller? the greaseproof like limited
edition controller that we did on one of the first
episodes of mystery tech. it gives me a little bit of
that vibe. you got the orange, you got the yellow, you got the red. it'll also have a little bit
of splash of black on the back. so if you're not familiar with design lab. essentially, what this is, is a full customization
service for xbox controllers. it's generally speaking,
not that expensive. i want to say it's like $10 more then buying a regular stock controller. - [ken] it's significantly less than paying someone to mod it for you. - [austin] absolutely. and you get a pretty wide range
of different customization options. i will say as
much as i do like this, the dual sense still to me, is kind of like a step forward. i mean, this is a good generic controller that will work across the board, but some of the custom
features like the triggers and the actual motion
controls inside, or, sorry, not the motion, but like... - [matt] the touch? - no, no, like the actual, vibration and like how much sort
of depth you get in that. on the dual sense does still to me make it a more impressive controller. also it has a batteries included. so f1 is downloading right now. i think f1 also will run at 120 fps. which is perfect for my high
quality 32 inch gigabyte aorus display with 4k 120
capability at hdmi 2.1. doesn't it look nice? can't you see the high quality original xbox background i have? what more could you really ask for? so this is my first time
playing f1 2021, which... wow that's fast, that's very fast. i believe this should run at pretty good frame rates as well. i'm going to, i'll play on the side. - [ken] lights on and away
they go. i like the hud. - [austin] i mean this
looks incredibly nice! - [ken] the hud looks better than before. - [austin] it looks great. so smooth, on my high quality aorus display. oh, look at that. that's much nicer now. - [ken] oh wow. - [austin] what the, oh!
(exclaiming) what was that? okay you know what? so here's the thing. the controller is great. i just think i just need a
little bit of warm up. you know, i just need a little bit of practice. i think now i'm ready to do this for real and show you my f1 2021 skills. that's really what i needed
the game was installing. so, i mean, i just need a little bit of time. okay. i just need a little bit of time. (tranquil music) e-bay? are they pokemon cards? - [matt] no! - oh, okay. this feels like a very heavy pair of
jeans cause it's floppy, but i can feel a little
bit of texture inside. these are jeans. these are actual jeans. i called it. oh no, is it that stupid levi thing? the smart jacket or whatever? (laughing) all right. so this might look
like a regular jean jacket, but inside this is actual
tech because this has bluetooth capabilities. i have many questions
first and chief among them. this was not cheap. i know this was like a
couple hundred dollars new or something. right. and based on the fact that
it came out of an e-bay bag, i'm going to guess that it
was slightly more than that on the resale market. - [ken] how much do you think it was? - i think it was $280. - [ken] well, i think, i paid $120 for it. - oh, look at that. that's actually like, i mean, these jackets actually are
fairly expensive by staying connected to your digital world. your things could do so much more. skip a song by swiping your sleeve. take a picture by tapping
on a shoulder strap. to remind you about the phone you left behind with a
haptic buzz on your cuff. so it's not like there's a
speaker in here or anything. this is basically like a
glorified bluetooth controller. - [ken] this is for android people because they don't have an apple watch. - wow. is this a men's size? - [man] are you a man's size? - i think so. it feels like i'm my armpits
are being pinched right now. oh, i found the link. levi's commuter. it's a fake button here. i see a fake button. i've
discovered something. i don't know what it seems like i'm supposed to connect something to this. so apparently according to the site, it uses the jacquard tag. are you trying to tell me
right now that you bought the jacket without the jacquard tag. which makes it a cool smart jacket. (vocalizing) that was some serious force man. i'm just over your mind in my business. and i get smacked in slow motion with a levi jacquard jacket. this is the original one. - [ken] yeah. - okay. is there. you almost knocked my
coffee all over the floor. i hope you know that. - [ken] you almost knocked it over - i have things in my hand. so this is what you're supposed
to get when you purchase the levi commuter jacquard by google box. okay. so the jacket looks the same. we have a usb dongle of
some variety, the snap tag. - [ken] i only got that
box just for the dongle. - [austin] so i'm going to attach this to the little snap here and then i just need to tuck this in
it's actually. yeah, that works. according to the app set
up. when i plug it in, it's supposed to like flash
blue, but it is not doing that. it does just say. jacket
found, could not connect. - ken? - [ken] mhm? - can i borrow you for a moment? - so we have given this little module two full days to charge. we plugged in before it
was showing blinking red. now, without any further
ado, we're going to find out, does it work ready? and... well that's anticlimactic. did we just, - here, let me try. - [ken] it literally does nothing. - [austin] this thing has
been charging for two days. you know it's still a jacket
right? you know, it's still. that thing can go in the garbage. - oh yeah, these jackets are cool. - jackets are cool. we can go out on the town.
friday night, hit the, hit the clubs. - we would go out on
the town friday night, but austin said that he had things to do, like go to his wife. - yeah. it's okay. i'll just give her your jacket. and then she and i would
go out to the club. - the world's lamest couple. - wow. - that was a little out of pocket friend. - [ken] out of pocket? oh my god. this is like a straight jacket.