on june 24, 2021, a portion of champlain towers
south, a 12-story condominium in surfside, florida, near miami beach, collapsed around
1:30 am. it was one of the most deadly structural collapses
in u.s. history, with nearly 100 fatalities. forensic investigations of the event will
likely take years to complete, but there's a lot we already know about the collapse. in this video, i want to summarize the events
of this unthinkable tragedy, talk about a few of the structural engineering issues that
may have played a part, and finally explain the process of forensic structural investigations
and what might result from learning the technical cause of this catastrophe. i'm grady, and this is practical engineering. today's video is on the collapse of the
champlain towers south building. champlain towers south was built in 1981 along
with a nearly identical north structure just up the street. the 12-story oceanfront tower was constructed
of steel-reinforced concrete in the small miami suburb of surfside. the building sat atop an underground parking
garage that extended below the adjacent common area that residents called the pool deck. the building had 136 condominium units. unlike
an apartment property with a single owner, champlain towers south was collectively maintained
by those 136 condo owners through an association with board members. in the early hours of june 24th, we know that
there was a failure of the pool deck adjacent to the building. tourists at a nearby hotel were swimming when
they heard a crash. they walked over to the champlain towers to
see that part of the pool deck had collapsed into the parking garage below. about 7 minutes later, the building began
to fall. a security camera nearby caught the entire
event on camera. the building collapsed in three sections:
first a south portion of the building, immediately followed by a north portion, and finally,
the east section. the entire western half of the building remained
standing. the search and rescue operation started immediately
to get residents out of the damaged building and the rubble of the demolished area. crews worked 24/7 to sift through debris for
survivors. the western part of the structure, which didn't
collapse, posed a hazard to the rescue and recovery crews, especially with the threat
of tropical storm elsa potentially bringing high winds to the area. town officials made the difficult decision
to demolish the remaining part of the building on july 4th to safeguard the crews and avoid
the possibility of it falling onto the existing search and rescue zone. as of the recording of this video, 97 people
have been confirmed deceased. there were 126 people who were in the building
during the partial collapse and survived. of course, the most critical question of the
collapse is why it happened. unfortunately it's a difficult one to answer. the town of surfside put all of their records
and correspondence about the building online in the interest of public transparency. it was in the process of being recertified,
a requirement in miami-dade county for all buildings when they reach 40 years in age,
and every 10 years afterwards. that process starts with a detailed inspection
by a structural engineer. for champlain towers south, the inspection
was performed in 2018. the findings of that structural inspection
have been the focus of most of the early conjecture about the cause of the building's collapse. among the items of concern identified during
the inspection, one of the most important was the pool deck. the large concrete slab adjacent to the building
also served as a ceiling to the underground parking garage. the inspection report noted major structural
damage to this concrete slab, mainly as a result of poor drainage and failed waterproofing. the issue was that rainwater on the pool deck
could filter through the pavers above the concrete slab, and then it had nowhere to
go. so, instead of flowing along a properly sloped
slab to drains, it simply pooled above the slab like a bathtub. unlike a bathtub, this system wasn't watertight. runoff was leaking into the concrete below
through joints, cracks, and into the pores of the slab itself. this wasn't a surprise. it was a well-known problem at the condominium,
and there were even plastic gutters installed in various locations along the ceiling of
the parking garage to divert these leaks away from cars and walkways. but the water wasn't just a nuisance to
residents. it was also slowly deteriorating the reinforced
concrete structure itself. i've produced a series of videos about concrete
and steel reinforcement, so i'll link that playlist below if you want more details. reinforced concrete is an extraordinarily
versatile building material because it is strong, durable, relatively inexpensive, and
can be cast into just about any shape. for better or worse, it is one of the most
ubiquitous building materials of the modern world. but like all building materials, it has its
weaknesses and is subject to deterioration over time. one of the most prevalent of those weaknesses
is the corrosion of steel reinforcement. embedded steel is usually safeguarded against
corrosion by the impermeable covering of concrete and its alkalinity, which creates a protective
oxide layer around the steel. however, over time, water flowing through
concrete can leach certain constituents out, making the concrete more porous and less alkaline. that makes the steel more subject to corrosion. this is especially true in coastal areas where
salt laden air from the sea can carry chloride ions toward inland structures. when these chloride ions saturate the concrete,
they accelerate the degradation of the protective oxide coating around the steel. corrosion doesn't just weaken steel, it
also causes it to expand in volume, creating pressure within a reinforced concrete structure. eventually the corrosion can reach a point
where the pressure is too much. the surrounding concrete breaks away, leading
to cracks, spalls (which are small areas of flaked off concrete), or delamination, where
parts of the concrete along mats of reinforcing steel are completely separated. once the steel is no longer surrounded and
protected by concrete, the corrosion can progress much more quickly and may eventually lead
to a structural failure. the engineering and construction industries
have made huge improvements in design and construction of concrete structures in the
past 30 years thanks in large part to the federal highway administration and the international
concrete repair institute. however, champlain towers south was designed
and built before modern building codes included best practices for concrete structures in
harsh coastal environments. the engineer who inspected the tower pointed
out the problem with the pool deck in strong language, stating that "failure to replace
the waterproofing in the near future will cause the extent of the concrete deterioration
to expand exponentially." keeping water, especially salty water, away
from reinforced concrete is vital. if inadequate waterproofing turns out to be
the cause of the failure, it won't have been the first time. in 2012, the roof of the algo center mall
in elliot lake, ontario collapsed, killing two people. the cause of the collapse was corrosion of
the building's steel framework instigated by leaks through the improperly waterproofed
rooftop parking deck. the prevailing theories about the champlain
tower collapse from most of the current investigative journalism centers around the pool deck as
a trigger or at least a major factor in the building's demise, especially because the
pool deck failure preceded the collapse. however, there is less certainty about what
role in the collapse the failure of the deck slab had, since it does not provide any support
to the building itself. what we see in the surveillance video would
have required failure of one or more columns below the structure. one possibility is that the deck slab punched
through intermediate columns such that it was hanging like a sheet from the columns
below the building, sometimes called catenary action. the forces from the hanging slab could have
loaded the columns below the building in a way they weren't designed to withstand,
causing them to buckle. thanks to mike bell for sharing his animation
of how that might have happened. however, the exact mechanism in which those
columns failed is still unknown. tragedies like this are usually the result
of many separate factors coinciding, and there are several circumstances that may have contributed
to the collapse. a research team studying changes in land and
sea levels in the area in 2020 measured some unusual settlement of a few millimeters per
year in the area of this building. although many areas experience significant
long-term and large-scale settlement, also called subsidence, it's possible that if
different parts of the site were settling at different rates, the tower's foundation
could experience additional structural stresses. also, some photos of the rubble appeared to
show less reinforcing steel than was called for in the original design drawings, particularly
at the column-to-slab connections. there were also regular intrusions of groundwater
into the parking garage, the recent construction of an adjacent high-rise building, and ongoing
construction to the building's roof to consider. all of these factors and many more will be
reviewed by the forensics teams who are already investigating the cause of the failure. many of these investigators have been on site
during the recovery and cleanup operation to make sure rubble and debris that may offer
clues into the cause of the collapse are documented and preserved. major parts of the building are being preserved
as evidence, so rubble was sorted on site and taken to a nearby warehouse for cataloguing. it's important to keep in mind that each
one of these forensic teams is trying to answer a slightly different question. the town of surfside hired its own investigator,
allyn kilsheimer, to begin looking into the collapse. surfside has a number of high-rise condos
under their purview, so presumably they felt the need to conduct their own investigation
for the safety of their citizens. another critical service that mr. kilsheimer
is providing is to satisfy the public's need for information, which is why you see
him doing interviews and talking on news shows on behalf of the town of surfside. at the federal level, the national institute
of standards and technology announced that they would launch a full investigation into
the collapse. formerly called the bureau of standards, nist
does a lot of research and science around measurements, materials, manufacturing, and
engineering. since 2002, they also have a federal mandate
to investigate the cause of failure when a building collapse results in substantial loss
of life. their investigation will likely be the most
thorough, including laboratory testing of steel, concrete, soil specimens, and structural
modeling. during the recovery operation, they were on
site with sophisticated equipment to take detailed records as rubble was hauled away
and performing non-destructive testing to locate reinforcing steel and determine properties
of the concrete members. they will also review all the reports and
photographs from professionals, survivors, and witnesses of the event. their final report will probably take a year
or two to complete. the primary purpose of that investigation
will not be to find fault, but rather to make recommendations for improvements to the building
code and industry practices in the fields of structural engineering and construction. insurance companies, victims, owners, and
designers will also be involved in lawsuits to try and establish who is at fault in this
tragedy and potentially award damages as a result. those legal teams will hire their own experts
who will be investigating the details of the collapse. however, their focus will be toward establishing
professional and organizational culpability more than the technical causes of the failure. finally, the county called a grand jury to
examine the building's collapse. a grand jury is essentially a group of citizens
used to administer justice in various forms. most commonly, grand juries are used as a
step between accusing a person of a crime and trying them in court. however, they can also conduct their own investigations
as representatives of their community. if the grand jury finds serious negligence
or wrongdoing, there may even be criminal investigations that result from the collapse. was it a poor design, a mistake made during
construction, lack of proper maintenance, or a combination of all three? that's the question the forensic teams will
be trying to answer. and just to temper expectations a little,
they may not find a final and clearcut cause of the collapse. the difficulty of forensic engineering is
that you're trying to piece together a sequence of events from small and disparate puzzle
pieces. unfortunately, in this case where the failure
likely began at the bottom of the structure, most of those puzzle pieces were buried in
a pile of rubble. i want to emphasize that this type of event
is extremely rare. the damage to the champlain tower south pool
deck shown in the 2018 inspection report is severe, but it was not an indication of an
imminent collapse of the adjacent building by itself. although we don't know exactly how much
things worsened between then and the collapse, i think you'd be hard-pressed to find a
structural engineer who would evacuate a building based only on the level of deterioration shown
in that report. nearly all buildings, even with moderate maintenance,
will last much longer than 40 years without fear of something catastrophic. modern building codes are designed to ensure
that our structures are engineered with redundancies and factors of safety for exactly this reason. my heart goes out to the victims of this unspeakable
tragedy. i hope that investigators can get to the bottom
of the collapse and its cause so that something like this never happens again.