we often think of civil engineers as designers
of static structures, or things that don't move. that would be nice, but the the reality is
that everything moves for one reason or another, and one of those reasons happens to be temperature. hey i'm grady, and this is practical engineering. today we're talking about thermal expansion. this video is sponsored by blue apron. more on that later. whether you realize or not, you're probably
already familiar with thermal expansion, which is the property of materials to change their
volume depending on temperature. if you've used a glass thermometer, you've
even taken advantage of it. the liquid in a thermometer, usually mercury
or alcohol, increases in volume as it heats up. since we can characterize this expansion,
we can put it to use as a measuring device. maybe you've had some experience with a
less useful application of thermal expansion. if you've ever put glass dishware on a burner
or poured cold water on a dish that just came out of the oven, you know it doesn't go
so well. if it's allowed to expand and contract evenly,
stresses in the material don't build up. but, if you heat or cool it unevenly, certain
parts of the glass will fight against each other as they change size. glass isn't flexible, so instead of bending,
it just shatters. thermal movement is something that has to
be considered in nearly every field of engineering, because there aren't many places that don't
see fluctuations in temperature. and there are really only two options when
designing for thermal expansion: the first one is to prevent the movement by constraining
it, a feat that is almost always impractical. thermal movement can generate tremendous amounts
of internal stress. watch how this wire can lift up a weight just
by heating it up, then cooling it down. so, the other way to accommodate thermal movement
is just to allow your design the freedom to move as it so desires. but sometimes that's easier said than done,
especially for large civil structures. this is the formula for thermal expansion. it may look complicated, but it's really
not. it essentially says that the change in size
of anything is a linear function of temperature proportional to its length. and the slope of this line is the coefficient
of thermal expansion. we've measured this property for a whole
host of materials, and you can look up tables online. lucky for civil engineers, the thermal expansion
coefficients for steel and concrete are nearly identical, which is why we can combine them
into the ubiquitous construction material, reinforced concrete, without worrying too
much about fluctuations in temperature pulling it apart. but, even though they expand and contract
at the same rate, they still expand and contract. a perfect example of this is a sidewalk. let's look back at our formula and plug
in some numbers for a very typical situation. if we enter values for the average length
of a city block, the average high and low temperatures in a given year, and the thermal
expansion coefficient for concrete, we can see that the total movement of a sidewalk
over the course of a year can be upwards of 4 cm or 1.5 inches. obviously, you can't leave a gap in the
sidewalk that big at the end of every block, so instead, we leave small gaps spaced every
so often to accommodate that movement. most of the joints you see along a sidewalk
are just to control cracking, but if you pay attention, every so often you'll see an
actual break in the concrete filled with some kind of flexible material. these are expansion joints that give the walkway
the freedom to move from fluctuations in temperature. but what about structures that are longer
than a city block? thermal movement scales with length, so engineers
need to take a lot more care with linear infrastructure. long runs of pipe, especially if they experience
fluctuating temperatures, need expansions joints to prevent damage. the rails for trains can experience "sun
kink" where a hot day can actually buckle the steel. one of the biggest challenges for thermal
movement is on bridges. so i built a little model to show why (montage?). unlike sidewalks that can have periodic expansion
joints, bridges only have support between spans. you can't have an unsupported break in the
bridge, so that means all of the thermal movement happens at the supports. the allowance can't be evenly distributed
across the length; it happens all in one spot. for bridges with very long spans, that can
be a lot of movement. i've got my bridge set up with one side
pinned and one side free to move. i'll fire up the sunny day simulator and
watch what happens on the dial indicator. the bridge expands along its length as it
heats up. this is exactly what happens in real life. now i'll try to pin both sides of the bridge
so that the movement is constrained. the bridge still expands as it heats up, but
now it has to expand in directions it wasn't meant to go. it's a little bit hard to show on camera,
but the entire bridge has buckled side to side. i'm using flexible rod for this demo, but
if a real bridge was constrained like this, the forces generated by thermal expansion
would probably lead to failure of the structural members. expansion joints on bridges not only have
to allow the bridge to move while still being supported, they also have to bridge the gap
in the road deck so that cars can safely drive over it. so, if you look closely, you'll see lots
of creative ways engineers manage thermal expansion. these are some photos collected from the web
and sent in to me by viewers of different bridge bearings that allow thermal movement. my inspiration to make this video came when
i was looking through some vacation photos. take a close look at this steel catwalk over
the river. the shorter, cantilevered beams are welded
directly to their anchor plates. they're free to move because they're only
connected to the rock on one side. but look at the beams that stretch across
both sides of the canyon. at first glance, it seems like they're constrained
on both sides and we know that's bad engineering. but if you look closely, you can see that
they're bolted to the anchor plate using slotted holes to allow the beams to expand
and contract. i hope this video gave you a little more insight
into the dynamic nature of structures we normally consider static. keep your eyes out and you'll notice allowance
for thermal movement everywhere you look. thank you for watching, and let me know what
you think. thanks to blue apron for sponsoring this video. blue apron delivers all the fresh ingredients
you need, right to your doorstep, in exactly the right proportions to create delicious
recipes at home. no trips to the grocery store, and no waste
from unused ingredients. we are really loving it at our house, and
having a lot of fun cooking these meals together, not to mention eating them. if that sounds like something you'd be interested
in, the first hundred people that click the link in the description will get $30 off their
first order. again, thanks for watching, and let me know
what you think!