- oled displays might not be
the best you can get for long. there's a new technology
from samsung display, who sponsored this video, that at least on paper,
is better in every way. and it's not microled, it's oled? but a new kind of oled called qd-oled. and samsung display is so confident in it that they pulled the unprecedented move of flying us and our testing equipment out for an early preview of
their tvs and gaming monitors. and after seeing them side by side with the current best of the best, yeah, i think i better just say it, this is the new top of
the line, and i want one. stick around and we're gonna show you guys how you can spot a qd-oled just by the picture quality itself. but first, picture the
quality of our sponsor. wait, this is sponsored by samsung. i out-segued myself. (upbeat music) if you've shopped for a premium
tv in the last few years, you've probably had to answer
the following question. am i gonna watching in a dark basement or a sunbathed living room? that's because neither of the
current leading technologies look their best in both
of these scenarios. no matter how many local
dimming zones you add an lcd is always going to glow a little and the oled tvs on the market are simply not bright
enough to be impressive, or in some cases, even usable
in very bright environments. but with qd-oled, this variable is all but removed from the equation because like a regular oled, each pixel can be turned off
entirely for perfect blacks. and we measured 27% greater luminance blasting full screen
white compared to an lg g1 which uses lg's evo panel
that is itself 20% brighter than what you would find
on most of their lineup, including the c1, which
is what most people buy. and in smaller areas, it gets even better. we measured a thousand
nits over a 10% patch and 1500 nits over a 3% patch, which is a lot bigger than you might think on a 55 or 65-inch screen. so yeah, while an lcd might
actually still be better for the deck of your yacht, these new qd-oleds are
closing the gap substantially. of course, you could
be one of those people who doesn't really get why everyone's so obsessed
with brightness these days. but don't click away because it's not just that
these displays are brighter, it's what they do with their brightness. the first thing you'll
notice are the reds. they're, simply put, like
nothing you've ever seen on an oled before. and they're in full force in "spider-man: miles morales" here. from the suit to the fire, the lg c1 looks brownie
orange by comparison. and in a game like this,
it's not just eye candy, it's immersion, like in person, this
burning building looks hot. while this one looks about as threatening as this quality desk
pad from lttstore.com. then there's the green. during this mall chase
look at these signs, instead of looking like paper posters, they pop like backlit
advertisements should, making them all feel like a
vibrant, purposeful setting. on the lg, they're just
kind of a generic asset. now, unfortunately we
had pretty bad internet in the demo room, so we couldn't use our
shield as much as we wanted, but if what we've seen
is anything to go on, i really wanna see the
shire on one of these. the most magnificent color
upgrade though was gold. and there's a really cool
color science reason for why. we all know that white is
created by mixing r, g and b, but they're not mixed in equal proportion. there's actually less blue because it's the highest
energy wavelength. but if you remove the blue altogether, you're left with just red plus
green, which makes yellow. therefore yellow is the brightest
saturated color possible and it is just stunning on the qd-oled, whether you're looking at a bird, a statue or a landscape, current oleds look brown
and drab by comparison. and this improvement in saturation means that even if you turn the
brightness of a qd-oled way down, say, you're in a light
controlled theater room and you don't want it to
be eye searingly bright, it will still appear brighter
than the current tech because humans perceive
increased saturation as increased brightness. like, it's one thing to describe it, but it's a whole other thing to actually cap our hdr
test signal to both tvs at exactly a thousand nits and yet have our eyes tell
us no, these are different. but it all makes total sense once you understand the hardware inside. these new qd-oleds use only blue emitters as their light source. then, since blue is a high frequency wave, it can be stepped down to green and red. that's done with quantum dots that are inkjet printed
directly onto the emitters in an rgb subpixel pattern. this blue light to red or green conversion is done super efficiently with only 10% of the light being lost and then on the blue subpixel,
there's no color conversion though the light does pass through a clear scattering material to mimic the quantum dot's ability to spread light out
evenly in all directions. this improves viewing angles. the end result is that nearly all of
the light from the source actually makes it to the
front of the display. and it does so with
very precise definitions of red, green, and blue. this is in stark contrast to how woleds, the kind made by lg,
who produced virtually, every large format oled
panel on the planet, work, instead of starting with a single color, those have emitter material
for each primary color, so r, g and b. these then combine into
white inside the display before then being separated back out by color filters at the subpixels. unlike with quantum dot color conversion, these filters block all of the colors they're not selecting for and what they do let through
has a relatively loose standard for what's considered red or green. combine all of that with the fact that red and green oled emitters just aren't as powerful as
the blue ones to begin with and you start to
understand the w in woled. it stands for white because there's an
additional clear subpixel, that lets white light shine through to help make the image brighter. this is why the kind
of brightness matters. if you add up the brightness
that you're getting from just the red, green, and
blue subpixels on the woled, you get a sum that is way less than the display's overall
measured brightness and nits that's because that white pixel is doing a lot of the heavy lifting. now, on a picture of a glacier, you probably won't care or notice, but on a landscape or a golden coin, it's like brightening the
image by turning up the game instead of by doing it properly. qd-oled though, add up your r, g and b and that's the whole enchilada. armed with that knowledge, then, let's take a look at some color charts. this thumbnail shaped area represents every color
perceivable by the human eye. the triangle is the bt.2020 color space, which is pretty much the gold
standard for modern displays. the points on the triangle
are the rgb color primaries, and every color within the triangle can be created by mixing
those three colors. see how on the g1 woled, the primaries don't
quite meet the corners. that's why this tv can only create 75% of the colors in the gamut. but on the qd-oled, the reds and greens push closer to the edges for a result of over
90% coverage of bt.2020. multiply that 2d cross section over the entire luminance range that these displays can produce and you've got a color volume that is unprecedented
in the consumer space. that's why they look more
lifelike, more lively, and often, more red to
the extent that i think we could probably pick out
a qd-oled out of a lineup just based on their warmer look. but who cares how good it looks if it's just gonna burn in, right? that's a valid concern, but
honestly, i'm not too worried. remember the bit about how
much more light efficient these displays are? well, that means that the emitters don't have to be driven
with as much voltage for the same brightness, which should give them a longer lifespan. unfortunately, samsung display would not quote us specific
image retention expectations, but here's what we do know. number one, in addition to
the prevention techniques that are found on conventional oleds, these new panels have real-time
image sticking compensation. so it's basically like the program that i ran on my 48-inch c10, except that it works on a pixel
by pixel basis in real time, so there's no user intervention required. and since it's continuous, it could extend the
lifetime of the display beyond one that relies
on a manual process. and number two, they're
making gaming monitors, which means that they are
clearly, damn confident that our start menus aren't
gonna be stuck on them after a few months. we got to see a curved 34-inch,
ultra wide alienware display equipped with a samsung
display qd-oled panel that made the local dimming lcd beside it look absolutely stupid. g-sync ultimate oleds
instantaneous pixel response times and a 175 hertz refresh rate come together to create
what has a good chance of being the new god of gaming monitors. it even has rgb or, well, all monitors have rgb on the front. it has it on the back as well. so get subscribed for
our full review of that. but do we think everyone should rush out and buy one of these next gen displays when they launched in early 2022? that depends. and yes, i give these
displays high praise for days, but that was in the context
of a side-by-side comparison that was obviously
curated by samsung display since they flew us down here to see it and sponsored this video. and yeah, a qned miniled or a woled might look like it's from the
stone age next to a qd-oled, but the reality of it is if you were to walk into
your friend's living room and see that same qned miniled tv, you'd probably be really
impressed with it. i sure was when i first saw one. if i had to quantify it,
i'd say that these new units are 15 to 25% better than the
woleds that we have today, depending on how you score them. by the way, i didn't even mention they can do 4k 144 hertz on tvs. but the issue is you can
count on paying a premium for all that extra shine. overall, we don't know how much that is so whether you buy one or not, innovation and competition
in the oled space, the penetration of oled into
the gaming monitor space and the ability for creators to more articulately communicate
their vision to audiences gives me anything but
the blues for the future. oh, i get it, the blues, 'cause it's a purely blue
light with quantum dots. if you guys enjoyed this video, maybe go check out our qned tv video. that was the whole thing there, they're super impressive though.