- can you spot the difference? i mean, low to medium, or medium to high, sure, that's easy. but the higher we go, the
change is less obvious, outside of your frame
rate biting the dust. so if super-fancy-extreme-ultra
graphics options are hardly noticeable, why are developers still
adding them to new games, especially when your bangin' new pc can't even run them at
playable frame rates? are the gpu manufacturers to blame? i need an answer. and the answer to who sponsored
this video is glasswire. are you lagging out while gaming? use glasswire and see what
apps are wasting your bandwidth and causing your games to lag. get 25% off today using offer code linus at the link below. (upbeat music) even with the best modern hardware, brand-new triple-a games often struggle to run at maxed-out graphics settings. with the advent of ray tracing and hdr, this has become even more apparent as systems with high-end 30-series cards can barely keep up once
you output to a 4k monitor and flip a few in-game switches. dlss and fsr are helping, but is it really worth it to spend your life savings on a bugatti so you can feel like a badass
on your five-minute commute? look, we're not saying
maxed-out settings do nothing. it's just that the visual
upgrade you'll notice is minimal, comparatively speaking. after all, at msrp a 3070 is $499 while a 3090 is basically
triple that at $1,499. so to see whether skipping a rent payment to buy a graphics card is worth it, we built two systems to compare different settings
at similar frame rates and asked a few folks
from around the office if they could tell the difference. we didn't tell them what was going on. we just asked them to play a section from "metro exodus: enhanced edition" and to tell us which one looked nicer. - uh... - uh... - uh, i mean... - they're the same. - i would say this one's better. - i want to say i like this one better. - it's hard to tell though. - i don't know. they look the same. - and guess what? only one
person picked correctly. - yeah. is this the 3090? - yeah, it's the 3090.
- yeah. it's a little bit clearer, but like... i don't know, a tiny bit. - our resident gamer god david was able to tell pretty quickly which system was our rtx
3090 at extreme settings, while everyone else defaulted to the 3070. the results were so skewed, we started doubting the setup by the end. but, nope, it's just really
hard to tell for most people, particularly those who
aren't already gaming on some of the most
expensive hardware available. but why? the answer has to do
with diminishing returns. i mean, you're gonna enjoy a $70 steak more than a buck-fifty hot dog, but will you enjoy it $68.50 more? i don't know. but fortunately our friends
at crytek are meat experts, and by meat, i mean video game graphics. they're working on the
"crisis remastered trilogy," so we reached out for some answers. they told us that they do
have performance targets and are aware of modern hardware like the latest generation of
consoles or graphics cards, but there are always hurdles in the way of smooth performance, large environments, 4k textures,
particle effects, and ai being some of the bigger ones to get over. the first step is getting
all of this into the game and running in the first place, while optimization typically comes later. usually, the more time for optimization, the better the game will
run on most hardware. when there's a lot of
hardware to optimize for, things can get messy. and if your setup's cable
management is messy, make sure to pick up some
cable ties from lttstore.com. like these. they're so good. targets have scaled up over the years, and with modern consoles,
we're finally looking at 1440p or even 4k resolutions running
at 60 frames per second, at least on medium or low settings. if your hardware is getting older, which it is for a lot of us according to the steam hardware survey, and my back! ooh! some settings have a much
bigger impact than others, particularly shadows and particle effects. you've probably found yourself tinkering with settings one by one to try to get the best mix
of frame rate to fidelity, only to have trouble even
noticing the difference sometimes, especially if there are no
example images or videos to show you in real time. why does ultra and very high in many cases look basically identical, but suddenly you go from 70 fps to 40? the real problem often isn't
developers failing to optimize. it's that as things
look better and better, it's hard to notice due to the 80/20 rule. getting 80% of the way there
is actually pretty easy and it's not until we try to squeeze out that extra 20% of detail and depth that we run into problems. take "anno," for example. it looks great, but for
the best play experience, you need to really zoom the camera out, and adding more objects and
textures to render in-frame causes performance to chug significantly. we see similar results when improving draw
distance in other games, but at a certain point
it's not really worth it since we can barely make
out distant objects anyway. but we're all dumb apes, and when there's a slider we can move all the way to the right, we just have to stick our
grubby fingers in there even though the low,
medium, and high settings will probably look just fine. ooh-ooh, ah-ah. me like sliding. so here's the example crytek gave us. at the lowest option you've
got pretty low-res textures, a 1,000-meter draw distance, low amounts of particles for effects, and extra details like waves
on water are turned off. very high sounds drastically different, offering 4k textures, a
2,500-meter draw distance, lots of particles, and
all the extras turned on. but when you compare high to very high, the gap is much smaller, with the main difference being texture resolution going from 2k to 4k and a draw distance improvement. if you don't have a 4k
monitor to begin with and the foliage is thick, good luck spotting that
with the naked eye. another improvement
that can be hard to see past a certain point is tessellation, or splitting up polygons
into finer pieces. adding more triangles to
smooth out a curved surface is a huge improvement to 3d environments, but unless you start zooming in a lot, you likely won't be able
to tell the difference. however, some things are
100% worth turning on, even if your frame rate
drops significantly. we mentioned draw distance already, but more realistic shadows and lighting can really just make a dull environment mmm, spring to life. antialiasing solutions are also huge for smoothing ugly, jagged surfaces, and higher-resolution
textures do look a lot better if you have the right screen for them. but these options are gonna have different effects in every game, so whatever you're playing, try to test the waters
and find the right balance of frame rate to visual
quality for yourself. and speaking of visual quality, make sure you're subscribed
so you don't miss out on our upcoming looking
glass portrait video. ooh. now, if we know deep down that going from very high to ultra is either indistinguishable
or hardly better, why do developers keep making
these ridiculous settings that only a tiny fraction
of players can actually run if anyone at all? well, there's two big reasons. one: options are always good to have. and two: it helps market the game. we all want to buy the new hotness, especially when it's pretty, but many of us have been
duped into preordering based on what's shown at e3
versus the final product. and while most people can't run ultra or very high settings now, they might be able to in
the future once they upgrade and want to revisit some older games. for now, though, if you don't have the
latest and greatest gpu, which is probably the case given the hard, hard year we've had, don't worry. these days, low settings often look surprisingly good in modern games and in some cases can give
you a competitive advantage, with medium and high
offering a nicer experience if you can run it. there's no shame in keeping
setting on the left, silly ape. don't give yourself slider envy. but it's perfectly acceptable to envy this video's sponsor, drop. - drop's sennheiser hd 6xx headphones are one of their all-time bestsellers with over 90,000 units sold. and why not? they're frickin' awesome. they have not changed the
driver and sound structure compared to the regular hd 650s, so you can expect a
nice, balanced midrange and natural-sounding bass. they've got an open-back design which allows auditorium-like acoustics for accurate sound reproduction. they've got a detachable six-foot cable instead of the 10-foot cable on the more conventional models and... really is a better length for the cable. and they use a 1/8-inch plug that's versatile for everyday use with a 1/4-inch adapter
included for your a/v gear. so why wait? buy them today
at the link down below. they're actually very similar
to my daily driver hd 600s. they're just so comfy, too. - so what do you guys think, though? do you have a 3090 or a 6900 xt and you just refuse to play at anything other than 4k ultra, even
if the frame rate dips? let us know in the comments below. and if you liked this video, make sure to check out
our dlss and fsr videos. ooh, the future is lookin'
bright. (kiss smacks)