- what's up, youtube? i think we can all agree that 2020 might be the only thing in existence worse than 2018 rewind. - yeah. - [mrbeast] because of
the global pandemic, thousands of creators
just couldn't make videos. it was brutal and i can't blame youtube for not wanting to make a rewind. but a lot of good things
still did happen this year. and let's be honest, it
just wouldn't be youtube if we didn't have a rewind to make fun of. so, enjoy. (upbeat music) - [new reporter] a lot of growing concerns about this deadly coronavirus
officially hitting the u.s. - [man] everyone spread out. (men cheering) - i got a charizard! (upbeat music) (man laughing) (upbeat music) - mrbeast rewind! (upbeat music) - [mrbeast] i've always
thought that youtubers should get more say in rewind, which is why i called
hundreds of youtubers and asked them what they
think should be in rewind. - what do you want in youtube rewind? what do i want in youtube rewind? - minecraft. this year was
a big year for minecraft. - i love you. - i would put a lot of minecraft. - the resurgence of minecraft. [music] minecraft. [music] - you're a stupid chicken. - i deleted a channel of mine. - unus annus. - the coffin dance meme. - it's too soon, hikaru. - valkyrie. - thank you so much for the support. - so many amazing games
came out this year. - woo. - susan wojcicki doing one kickflip. - i actually really like this person. - dream. - dream. - dream. - the dream smp. - [youtuber] i have a
strange feeling that dream will be left outta youtube rewind. - [youtuber] what dream's
been doing is crazy. - no! no! there's no way - i gotta say losing to ninja
in rock, paper, scissors. absolute the lowest point in 2020. - easy! easy baby. - bro, look at that. - [youtuber] it looks just like me. - we're doing among us in real life. - something with among us. (beeping) - among us.
- among us. - among us. (man screaming) - among us.
- among us. - among us funny moments. - no, no, no! - corpse husband. - corpse husband. - [youtuber] corpse husband. - corpse. - his voice, he makes
my arm hairs stick up. - [corpse husband] i've been
waiting so long for this. jacksepticeye raising
4 million plus dollars. - arranging thankmas. - matpat raised over 3 million. - there was a lot of charity efforts. - i feel like as a whole, the community really banded together. - youtubers donating. - i'm gonna give 10 grand to the cause. - blm. black lives matter. - we have to spread the message. we have to be responsible
and use our voices. - this is our time. - this is the human race. (clapping) (dial tone) - logan, congratulations on not having a major
controversy this year. - yes, thank you, bro. i wish i could say the
same about my brother. (gasping) - i don't wanna say the thing. don't make me the thing.
- say the thing. - k-pop - k- pop! - i would definitely put
blackpink in youtube rewind. - mark rober teaching
squirrels to parkour. - all of mark rober's videos. - i made friends with
a bunch of squirrels. - the new playstation
called playstation 5. - worst part of 2020. hmmm? - the worst part about 2020
definitely was losing kobe. - i think the definition of greatness is to inspire the people next to you. (emotional music) - wakanda forever! (emotional music) - the worst part of 2020
would probably be covid-19. - there's a bit of a virus going around. - for me, not being able
to see friends and family. - for me, it was the being inside. - having to get used to working remotely and i still live in fear
of getting infected. - seeing the sacrifice that
all of the healthcare workers and frontline workers had to make. - david dobrik quit youtube
and switched to tiktok. - definitely the coronavirus
and the pandemic. - i didn't get to see my boys all year. - ah yes, computer science class, i am the hacker man. - mrbeast. - mrbeast.
- mrbeast. - mrbeast winning creator of the year. - definitely mrbeast giving a
million dollars worth of food. - think he like made burgers or something. - karen invasion. - toilet paper. - i just want one packet. - chloe ting saved my quarantine. (cheering) - ooh, that was close. - everyone who grew a beard
or changed their look somehow. (screaming) - i animated mrbeast
blowing up a hospital. (explosion) sorry about that jimmy. - jenna marbles quitting youtube was the biggest thing
on youtube this year. - i think i'm just gonna move
on from this channel for now. - i don't know? wap? - [together] wet (beep) p word. - the boxing match. - nate robinson versus jake paul. - and he can hit hard. - i feel like ichiban
just blew up this year. - [corpse husband] anthony padilla for giving voices to people. - gaming moments. i'm talking speedrun. - tiktok.
- tiktok. - tiktokers becoming youtubers. - today i have five very special friends. (laughing) (upbeat music) - i wanna see what
dream really looks like. (suspenseful music) (farting sound) - [mrbeast] what you
currently see on your screen is every single channel that hit 10 million subscribers in 2020. not gonna lie, it's actually
more than i thought it was. and what you see on your screen now is every single channel that hit 1 million subscribers in 2020. holy crap. my editor didn't feel
like typing them all out so here's just a video of me scrolling through the excel sheet. each one of these names represents someone that hits a million
subscribers in just 2020. now to wrap things up,
i have a fishbowl full of random small channels. i'm going to draw a channel
like this and give them a plug. so amelia and bridie, shout out to you. you'll be linked in description below. now, i just wanna say that i tried my best to cover the international
scene but to be honest, i only know how to speak english. so it's kind of hard for
me to include you guys but shout out to... how do you say this? - [man off camera] soyan osman. - soyan osman with 241 subscribers. shout out to you. i wanted to also give a
quick shout out to pewdiepie. my rewind was heavily inspired by his rewind that he did in years past. i even used the same editors he did. felix, i love you. thank you so much for the inspiration. if you're not already subscribed to him, you probably already are. and our final shout out of the rewind, nalterdeeds with 1400 subscribers. make sure you subscribe to all
three of the small creators. i thought it'd be a fun
way to end the rewind. i'm sure it'd mean the world to them and thank you so much for watching. oh! oh, that's hot. (explosion) that's hot. (laughing)