why do we etch? lithography is the most charismatic part of the 
semiconductor manufacturing process. and yes,   it significantly drives continued 
semiconductor advancement. but all lithography does is transfer the chip 
design onto the photoresist-coated wafer. that's it. job's not finished. 
we still have more to do! we still need to engrave that design 
into the wafer's layers. that is what   etch is for. we use a liquid or plasma 
gas etchant to remove the parts of the   chip design we don't want and bring it to life. in this video we are going to look at the long 
history and technology behind semiconductor etch. ## wet etch in the beginning, there was only 
wet etch and this is how it worked. semiconductor manufacturers dunked the wafer   into a heated $10,000 quartz 
bath full of acid chemicals. what that acid chemical was depended on what we 
were etching. perhaps bare silicon or silicon   dioxide on the wafer. or maybe aluminum layers 
they use for producing interconnects. it depends. then we shake it ... shake it like a polaroid 
picture. the shaking helps bring more fresh   etchant solution to the wafer surface. it 
also helps loosen any gas bubbles formed by   the reaction. bubbles prevent the etchant from 
reaching the wafer, slowing down the etch rate. after the etch is complete, we wash off the acid,   dry the wafer using a spin-dryer 
and then move on to the next step. we want our etching rates to be as high 
and consistent as possible across every   wafer and every run. but the process 
can only go as fast as its slowest step. so if the etch rates deviate from 
expectation then something is wrong   and we need to troubleshoot. like maybe 
we haven't shaken loose enough bubbles. eventually people switched from simply 
dunking wafers into a bath - the fancy   word for this is "immersion etching" 
- to using a spray. this allowed us   to bring a more continual supply 
of fresh etchant to the surface. ## wet concerns wet etching is a chemical reaction, which 
is its greatest upside and downside. one of the major upsides is that a chemical 
reaction is selective. with the right etchant,   you can etch one particular thing, without 
worrying about it etching any of the other layers. but a chemical reaction can be difficult to 
consistently control. it is also hard to automate,   which means its effectiveness and yield is largely 
dependent on the individual operator's skill. and environmentally, there are particle 
contamination and toxic waste concerns.   some of these acids and their byproducts 
can get really nasty and cause pollution. however, wet etch's most significant issue 
was that it could no longer keep up with   the shrinking resolutions dictated 
by moore's law. let me tell you why. ## isotropic a chemical reaction etches in all directions - 
vertically and horizontally - at the same rate. we call this an "isotropic" etch profile, "iso" 
meaning equal. the big problem with isotropic   etch is that we cannot guide 
it in the proper direction. and if you are not careful, and the lines on the 
resist patterning are thin enough, then isotropic   etching might cut entirely underneath those lines. 
this "undercutting" hurts imaging resolution. undercutting first became a serious issue 
at the 5 micrometer process node - used   for producing 16k dram. the industry 
decided that wet etch alone can not   achieve the necessary resolution for the 
next node - the 3 micrometer/64k dram. these concerns eventually pushed the 
industry to explore the notion of "dry   etch" - an etching technique that 
does not use these wet chemicals. ## the search for a dry etch in 1967, a researcher at the american 
semiconductor company signetics named steve irving - no relation 
to kyrie - demonstrated the use   of gas plasma to strip off a layer of 
photoresist from a silicon surface. this methodology is called "ashing". so called 
because it essentially reduces things to ash. the concept is not new. people have 
been using gas plasma to "ash" the   organic parts of animal tissue so that 
they can get inorganic stuff for testing.   in an interview for an article gloriously 
titled "cool stripper", irving said: > photoresist material is nothing but organic 
material, and i had remembered from college   that when we were looking at trace elements 
in diseased human tissue, we had had the   same problem of removing the organics without 
volatilizing the elements we wanted to look at. he purchased some plasma equipment 
from tracer lab - a subsidiary of   lfe corporation - to run his tests. 
and those tests successfully removed   the photoresist without destroying the 
crystal structure of the underlying wafer. ## plasma plasma is the fourth state of matter. the plasma we use for plasma etching are 
ionized. this means the gas atoms become   charged by either losing or gaining 
an electron - creating ions. when a   significant percentage of the gas atoms 
become ionized, then we have a plasma. the sun is made up of plasmas. they do fusion   research with plasmas heated up 
to incredibly high temperatures. but the plasmas we produce for semiconductor 
production are not like those plasmas. we create them by exposing gas not 
to high temperatures but rather,   a very powerful radio frequency 
field - usually 13.56 megahertz. the interesting thing about these 
low-temperature plasmas - which are   still pretty hot at about 50-250 degrees 
celsius - is that materials react to them   at lower temperatures and energies than if 
they were in their gaseous or liquid states. for instance, carbon tetrafluoride or cf4. 
we want to use it to etch a layer of silicon. this layer is made up of silicon-silicon 
atom bonds which are quite strong. so if   that carbon tetrafluoride is 
in its normal gaseous state,   then it can't do anything to that 
silicon layer. no etching will happen. but if we convert the cf4 into a plasma, 
we change the dynamics. a plasma state   breaks those carbon-fluoride bonds. the 
cf4 breaks into a bunch of fluorine,   carbon fluoride 3, and carbon fluoride 2. and if we bombard the silicon surface layer with 
ions, the silicon bonds also weaken. now suddenly,   it takes much less energy to get the carbon 
and silicon to swap with one another. the result of the swap is a silicon tetrafluoride 
gas, and a layer of carbon where the silicon had   once been. the silicon fluoride gas can be pumped 
away. now what to do about the layer of carbon? if we pump oxygen into the chamber,   it reacts with the carbon to create carbon 
dioxide. once that carbon dioxide goes away,   we have another layer of silicon atoms 
below for more etching. we start again. in 1971, steve "not kyrie" irving received   a patent for the process of 
"gas plasma vapor etching". after that, irving left signetics to join 
international plasma corporation where   he developed the first plasma etch process 
for silicon nitride for making led screens. ## barrels the first plasma etch equipment were crossovers. they came from other industries that 
individual semiconductor people modified   for their own purposes. but it was not 
long until the first specialized plasma   etching equipment emerged into the market. the first such machines came in around 1972 
and were called barrel-type reactors. you know,   because their main plasma reactors 
were in the shape of a barrel. on the outside of this barrel chamber 
are coils which will generate the high   powered rf field. they put these coils 
on the outside to prevent contamination. to use the machine, we stick the wafers into the 
barrel chamber like dishes in a dishwasher. the   etchant gas mixture then goes inside and 
we turn on the rf coils. simple as that. ## early issues despite these seeming breakthroughs, plasma 
technology did not immediately take off. by 1975, the entire market was 
estimated at only $1.6 million   in size. steve irving recalled that most 
potential customers thought that plasma   etching was for the healthcare 
field, not semiconductors. this attitude was justified. at the time, barrel 
etchers did not perform very well outside of their   original purpose of photoresist stripping. in 
that, they did well and are still used today. when it came to actual etching, the 
product fell short. the barrel machines   were very simple. they did not have 
good temperature control, they didn't   etch uniformly across the wafer, and the wafers 
themselves often suffered radiation damage. most importantly, plasma etches of this 
first generation used chemical reactions,   which meant that they were still 
isotropic. this isotropic profile   disqualified it as a credible 
replacement for wet etch equipment. ## improvements in 1973, alan reinberg at texas 
instruments decided that enough was enough. he ditched the barrel and tried something 
new, inspired by his work in chemical vapor   deposition - the parallel plate reactor. i have 
also seen it called the radial flow reactor. this new design put the wafers on a platter 
with an rf-powered electrode underneath them. the wafers surround a hole at the center of the 
platter for gas to come in and out of. hence,   why it might be called a radial flow reactor. above the wafers, we have another 
set of electrodes. together,   the two rf electrodes can convert gas into plasma. we can then use the rf electrode under 
the wafers to accelerate the ions in   the plasma down towards said wafers - 
physically bombarding them. this will   at the same time trigger a chemical reaction 
between the etchant plasma and the substrate. the benefit is that we can still get the 
selectiveness of a chemical reaction,   while guiding the etch in a single direction 
- something called "anistropic" etch. the original parallel plate setup has 
since evolved into what is more widely   known as the reactive ion etch system, 
which i mentioned in a prior video. ## breakout unlocking anistropic etch unlocked 
plasma etch's full market potential. in 1975, a team at ibm led by dr. 
hwa-nien yu - who later worked at   taiwan's itri - produced an 8 kilobit memory 
with line dimensions of 1-1.5 micrometers. the team used cutting edge technologies 
of the time - electron beam lithography   to transfer the pattern. and then reactive ion   etch and ion implantation to etch the chip's 
features and give it its electrical properties. the demonstration made clear the future. 
semiconductor manufacturers quickly   transitioned from wet etch to dry etch. but with 
that, they came across two significant issues. the first involved the plasma damaging 
the silicon substrate and leaving residual   impurities of metal or whatever have you 
on the substrate after finishing the etch. these damages and impurities need to be removed. 
so fabs added a post-etch step to do so. post-etch   cleansing might be done by blasting the damage 
with oxygen or hydrogen plasma followed by a   dousing of wet acid, followed then 
with a good old-fashion hot bake. or they can use lasers, which to 
me should always be the preferred   choice. especially if those 
lasers are mounted on sharks. the other significant issue had to do with 
the equipment themselves. they were too slow. ## raising throughput the first barrel-type etch tools 
might not have done good etches,   but they did process wafers in large batches. 
process batching let the fabs make wafers faster. the transition away from the barrel gave us 
better etch precision and accuracy. however,   these early machines - reactive ion etching,   in particular - could only do them one at 
a time and very slowly, hurting throughput. since these tools easily cost over 
a million dollars each - which was a   lot back then - the fabs could not economically 
justify the expense unless throughput improves. so the etch tool makers either 
needed to get back to batching,   or speed up these single-wafer jobs. through the 
early 1980s, american and japanese semiconductor   companies tried to improve the latter by looking 
for ways to increase the density of the plasma. the first candidate was called 
"magnetically enhanced reactive ion   etch" or merie. it is exactly as the name says. very similar to the traditional reactive ion etch 
system, but we add a magnetic field to intensify   the plasma and enhance the etch. it kind of 
worked. but the magnetic field's position   parallel to the wafer created non-uniform 
plasma which in part nullified its effects. so just rotate the freakin' magnet,   ammirite? but doing so damaged the wafer. so, 
merie turned out to be a bit of a dead end. ## ecr and icp in the 1950s, the oak ridge 
national lab in tennessee - america's leading nuclear power and hot chicken   lab - invented a new method called 
electron cyclotron resonance or ecr. ecr was originally designed for fusion research. 
it uses both microwaves and magnetics to first   produce high density plasma in a separate 
chamber before we move it to the wafer. the americans invented ecr, but the japanese 
adapted it for semiconductor production.   in 1982, ntt filed a patent which they then 
licensed to hitachi. hitachi rebranded it   to "microwave plasma etching" and used it for 
their 4 megabit dram at the 800 nanometer node. throughout the late 1980s and early 
1990s, sematech funded oak ridge's   efforts to commercialize ecr as well. but 
they eventually fell out of love with it. ecr was too complicated, you needed a 
huge magnetic coil which took up space,   and it lacked uniform etch rates. so in the late 1980s, they came 
up with a modification called   "inductively coupled plasma" or icp. 
you put the magnetic coil at the top   of the chamber to produce high density 
plasma using electromagnetic induction. icp became the industry's dominant way 
to do reactive ion etch with high-density   plasma. applied materials, lam research 
and other vendors continue to work on   new ways to increase the plasma density 
of the tool without damaging the wafer. ## deep reactive ion etch advancing etch technology is a key contributor 
to moore's law. for instance, deep reactive ion   etching, which is an etch technique descended 
from reactive ion etch and the mems world. mems artists wanted to cleanly, quickly 
produce complex geometries in the silicon   like deep holes for something 
like a tether beam. existing   etch methods fell short because 
their holes were v-shaped. so in the 1990s, the mems department at the german 
company bosch developed what is now called deep   reactive ion etching. their specific flavor 
of it is named after them, the bosch process. this is pretty interesting. the bosch 
process cycles through two steps of   adding etchant and then an inhibitor to the 
substrate. each step lasts for a few seconds. let's imagine a flat substrate of silicon. then we fire a high density plasma mix of 
etchant and ions down at it. this is just   the same as reactive ion etching. the 
ions physically bombard the silicon,   while the etchant chemically reacts 
with it. the etchant goes to work. because it is chemical, it is isotropic,   eating in all directions. this 
creates a little round crater. then in the next step of the cycle, we 
apply the inhibitor - something kind   of like teflon - onto the crater. it coats the 
crater, nullifies the acid and stops the reaction. now we fire the etchant + ion plasma 
mix again down at the crater. the ions   physically break through the 
nullifying inhibitor layer,   exposing the silicon surface at the 
crater's bottom for the acid to react with. but only at the bottom. because 
those ions were fired in a single   direction - downwards - the layers of 
the inhibitor on the sidewalls were   untouched. so, they keep the acid 
from eating into those sidewalls. this way, only the bottoms of the crater get 
scooped out. over the span of many cycles,   you get this deep hole in the 
silicon with a characteristic   "scallop" sidewall. it is wickedly brilliant. deep reactive ion etch is used to produce 
through-silicon vias or tsvs. tsvs are one   of the cornerstone technologies behind modern 
die-stacked chips like our nvidia ai accelerators. we also use them to excavate the thin and deep 
trenches necessary for leading edge dram chips. ## conclusion as moore's law progresses, etch faces 
the same challenges faced by lithography. simply put, we need to get smaller. 
smaller while also being more precise. oh,   and it still needs to be fast. so 
what does the future hold for etch? atomic layer deposition is a 
well-established nanotechnology   method to deposit very, very 
thin layers onto substrates. i did a video about atomic layer 
deposition a while ago. go check it out. if atomic layer deposition builds up 
layers atom by atom, then atomic layer   etching does the conceptual opposite. it tears 
down thin layers, atom by atom. easier said than   done. ald is already widely used on fab floors 
but we are still working through ale's quirks. i will save this juicy topic for a 
future video, but the work is a sign that   etch - lithography's unheralded sibling 
- still has a vibrant future ahead of it.