a train is a simple thing at first glance: 
a locomotive (or several) pull a string of   cars along a railroad. but not all those railcars 
are equal, and there are some fascinating details   if you take minute to notice their differences. 
i'm about to start a deep dive series on railway   engineering, but i thought, before i do that, we 
should cover some of the basics first. how many of   these cars have you spotted before? i'm grady, and 
this is practical engineering. let's get started. all trains have at least one locomotive 
that provides the power. they can pull   from the front (called the head) 
of the train, push from the tail,   or act as so-called distributed power somewhere 
in between. there's a ton of types of locomotives,   but they deserve their own video, so today 
i'll focus mainly on the unpowered cars   they push or pull. we'll start with 
passenger cars, move on to freight,   and then talk about a few of the more unusual cars 
you might be lucky enough to spot on the rails. unless you work in the railroad industry, 
passenger trains are the only ones you'll   ever get a chance to interact with. the 
standard passenger car or coach is what   you've probably seen the most of: aisle in 
the center with rows of seats on either side.   some coach cars can be disconnected and 
rearranged, but most modern passenger   cars come in "train sets" that are 
rarely split up in normal operation. some passenger cars are bilevel, 
also called double-decker.   this can double the capacity of a car, 
but it's kind of rare. that's not only   because of height and weight restrictions 
on railroads, but also because the added   time it takes to load and unload the cars 
can cause congestion at busy stations. long-haul passenger trains may include a baggage 
car for checked luggage like the cargo hold of   an airliner. in most cases, they're designed 
to look like the rest of the passenger cars,   although often with fewer windows since 
bags rarely enjoy the view. combine cars   have a section for passengers 
and one for luggage or freight. although tricky to identify from the outside, a 
common sight on passenger trains is a diner car,   essentially a rolling restaurant. these cars 
gave rise to the quintessential american   restaurant of the same name, many of which are 
converted railcars themselves. some passenger   routes even include a lounge car, a bar on 
rails, that sometimes even has live music. if you're sleepy after dinner, you 
might find yourself in a sleeper car.   open section cars have the beds in bunks 
with only a curtain for privacy. most   modern sleeping cars have private rooms 
and bathrooms akin to rolling hotels. these days, especially in the us, passenger rail 
is used by people who find the journey itself to   be the destination. some passenger trains include 
dome cars for better sightseeing along the trip.   a bulbous glass dome provides a panoramic 
view from the side of the car. similarly,   observation cars are sometimes included at the end 
of a train to give passengers a view out the back. of course, we can't forget crew cars. 
all trains have a team of people who   work aboard for operation, maintenance, and 
other tasks, and they sometimes need their   own quarters for breaks or sleep. especially 
in areas like australia where there are huge   stretches of rail without stops at cities, a 
whole second crew might wait in the crew car,   ready to swap when the working time 
limits of the first crew are reached. passenger trains are cool, of course, but 
i'm more of a freight train railfan myself.   there's just something awesome about seeing 
a single car weighing sometimes more than   100 tons move almost effortlessly 
down the steel rails. and with the   huge variety of types of freight that move 
overland come a huge variety of railcars. boxcars are a common sight with their huge 
sliding doors. they can be loaded by hand   or forklift and accommodate a wide range 
of sizes and types of cargo that require   protection from the elements. and they have 
a few variations too. a refrigerated boxcar   is exactly what it sounds like: a giant 
insulated fridge or freezer on rails. they   usually feature a diesel-powered refrigeration 
system that's easy to spot from the outside. if the goods being transported in a boxcar 
are relatively light, you end up completely   filling the car before coming close to its weight 
capacity, sometimes called "cubing out" the car.   to maximize the use of a boxcar for lightweight 
cargo, there are taller versions called high   cubes. not all railroads can fit such a 
tall car because of tunnels or bridges,   so you might see the excess height 
portion of the car marked in white   to make sure it doesn't inadvertently end up 
on a route without the necessary clearance. if you want a train car full of cars, then 
you're looking for an autorack, designed to   carry consumer cars and trucks. many have three 
levels and carry dozens of vehicles at once.   freight rail moves automobiles cheaper and 
with better protection compared to driving   each one individually from factories to 
distribution centers. a few passenger   trains pull autoracks as well, like 
the autotrain between washington dc   and orlando. you can take your car on your 
rail trip and have it at your destination. when it comes to freight cars, it doesn't get 
much more straightforward than a flat car.   a simple name for a simple function: 
just a rolling platform that can be   used for all sorts of cargo, especially 
big stuff that needs to be loaded with a   hoist or crane and cargo that can handle 
a little rain or snow. you might see flat   cars used to transport heavy equipment 
and machinery, pipes or steel beams,   or even see multiple flat cars outfitted 
to transport enormous wind turbine blades.   some flatcars feature bulkheads at the front and 
rear. these help keep loads like steel plates,   pipes, and wood products from shifting forwards 
or backwards when the train accelerates or brakes. another flat car variant is the centerbeam 
car, used to haul lumber, plywood,   wallboard and fencing. the central beam helps 
stiffen the car, making it possible to stack   products higher. it also provides a place to 
secure the loads from either side of the car.   some centerbeam railcars hold enough 
lumber to frame out half a dozen houses! flatcars are also used for intermodal shipping, 
or using more than one mode of transportation like   trucks, trains, and ships. trailer-on-flatcar, or 
tofc, isn't exactly a distinct type of railcar,   but it is a distinct use of one. a semi-trailer is 
lifted or driven onto a flatcar at one terminal,   and it's ready to connect back to a truck 
once it reaches the next intermodal facility   to be driven to its final destination. 
this is sometimes called piggy-backing   and it can be a cheaper alternative than 
trucking the trailer for its entire route. most intermodal freight these days comes in 
containers, standardized steel boxes that fit on   trucks, trains, and ships. container-on-flatcar, 
or cofc, again isn't a different kind of car but   simply a specialized use. the cast corners of 
steel containers have holes that make them easy   to secure with latches or twist lock devices 
so they can be quickly loaded and unloaded. one of the great advantages of containerization 
is that modern intermodal containers can be   stacked. an interbox connector slots between the 
corner castings and holds each box together. but,   you don't see double-stacked 
containers on flatcars very often,   because of height restrictions and 
issues with center of gravity. instead,   well cars recess the bottom of a container 
between the wheels, lowering the top of a   double-stack and making it safer at speed. not 
every line has the clearance, but well cars have   made it possible to double-stack intermodal 
freight on a lot more routes than before. coils of sheet metal are used in countless 
manufacturing processes, so you can see them on   freight railroads fairly frequently in coil cars. 
steel coils are challenging to load and unload,   and challenging to secure as well, so that's 
why they get their own specialized cars.   many are covered with a hood to protect the 
steel or other metal cargo from the elements. gondola (gon-dola) cars, or gon-do-la,   depending on where you live, are used for 
bulk materials like scrap metal, sand, ore,   and coal. they're basically enormous wagons. 
gondolas have to be loaded and unloaded from   the top with a crane or bucket. some can 
be turned upside down and unloaded using   a rotary dumper. look for the different color 
of paint on the side with the rotary coupler. hopper cars are like gondolas in that they're 
loaded from the top, but they have sloped sides   and bottoms that funnel material so they can be 
unloaded through hatches at the bottom. hoppers   can have open tops when carrying loads that aren't 
sensitive to the weather, but covered hoppers   are used for cargo that needs protection 
from the elements like sugar and grains. another option for unloading bulk goods is 
to tip it sideways. this is a side dump car,   not very common to see. they're mostly 
used to maintain the railroad itself,   rather than move and deliver 
bulk goods to customers. this next car is very rare, but it's so cool i 
just had to include it. behold the behemoth that   is a schnabel car. there are actually two cars 
with far more axles than normal, each sporting   a heavy lift arm for truly enormous cargo, such as 
power transformers used in substations. one of the   largest of these is used in the us to transport 
nuclear reactor containment vessels on 36 axles. tank cars are used to carry liquids 
and gases on rails. like all railcars,   there are plenty of variations, but in general, 
they're split up into two types. non-pressurized   tank cars handle all kinds of liquids from 
milk to oil. they may have specialized coatings   that match their specific cargo needs, 
can be insulated or even refrigerated,   and they usually have a bottom outlet 
so that they can unload by gravity. pressurized cars are designed to transport 
liquids and gases under pressure.   these tanks have thicker walls and higher 
standards for containment of cargo.   pressurized cars always have protective housings 
covering the fittings on top of the tank. but,   some non-pressurized cars have them too, 
so you'll have to look for other subtle   clues (or memorize the dot classification 
numbers) to know which type each one is   for sure. tank cars designed for hazardous 
cargo are heavily regulated and have special   features like reinforced ends called head 
shields, specialized couplings that reduce   the impacts of a derailment, and pressure relief 
valves to minimize the chances of an explosion. i can't be totally comprehensive for this short 
video. if you can dream it, there's probably a   freight railcar of it somewhere, but that should 
be all of what you're likely to see in the wild,   plus a few that you'd be really lucky to spot. 
but passenger and freight cars aren't the only   things you'll see on the tracks. non-revenue 
cars are those used by the railroad companies   themselves. after all, building and maintaining 
railroads is a complicated and expensive endeavor,   and it takes a lot of interesting equipment to do 
it well. i'll rattle some of these off, but every   railroad is different in the type of equipment 
they use to keep things running smoothly. ballast is the name for the gravel bedding that 
railroad ties sit on. it distributes the enormous   pressure of trains to the subgrade, provides 
lateral support to keep tracks from sliding   side-to-side, and facilitates drainage 
to keep the subgrade from getting soggy.   ballast tampers shake and pack the ballast under 
the tracks, restoring the support if the ballast   has settled and sometimes correcting the rail 
alignment too. ballast regulators use blades and   brushes to distribute the ballast material evenly 
around the tracks and keep excess ballast from   covering the ties. a ballast cleaner picks up all 
the rock, separates it from any dirt, and replaces   it on the tracks to improve its ability to drain 
water and lock together to support the railroad. rail grinders do just that: grind the 
rails to restore their shape and remove   irregularities that show up as rails wear down.   a tie exchanger takes out the old ties and inserts 
new ones without having to remove the rails.   a spiker drives the spikes that hold the rails 
tightly to the ties. a railroad crane is used for   heavy lifting along the rails where it might be 
difficult to access with an overland crane. some   railways in the north use a rotary snowplow during 
severe winter weather to keep the tracks clear. sometimes you might see a work truck 
driving around on regular old paved   roads with an extra set of flanged 
metal wheels. this is a road-rail   vehicle also called hi-rail (since they can 
run both on the highway and the railroad).   there's a whole host of hi-rail vehicles out 
there, really any kind of work truck setup   you can imagine on the highway could find itself 
doing work on the railroad. and this is probably   the only rail vehicle you'll have a chance of 
seeing without also seeing a railroad itself! railroads depend on large scales to measure the 
weight of equipment and cargo. and of course,   if you've got a scale, you need a way to calibrate 
it, which is where the scale test car comes into   play. these cars are basically rolling hunks of 
metal with very precisely known weights, kind of   like a huge railroad version of the little weights 
you might have used in school science classes. a particularly rare car that you'd be 
lucky to see is a track geometry car.   they carefully measure the gauge, position, 
curvature, and alignment of the railroad,   helping to ensure the safety and smoothness 
of tracks without interrupting service. unlike   manual measurements of rail geometry, 
the measurements of track geometry cars   account for loading conditions since the 
car itself is a full-scale railroad car. and finally, bringing up the rear, 
a train car we've all heard of,   but one you won't really see too much of any 
more: the caboose. historically, cabooses   housed crewmembers who had a host of jobs, from 
helping with switching and shunting cars around,   to looking for damaged cars, dangling equipment, 
monitoring brakeline air pressure, and spotting   overheating bearings and axles. with the advent 
of roller bearings and wayside defect detectors,   the role of the caboose was diminished 
and eventually the laws requiring them   on trains were relaxed. today the last 
car of a freight train is often just a   regular cargo car, but with a small device 
on the back called an end-of-train device.   the most sophisticated versions monitor brake line 
pressure and movement of the back of the train,   relaying the information to the engineer at the 
head. and a flashing red light lets anyone know   that that's the whole train and there aren't any 
cars inadvertently left behind on the tracks. trains are one of the most fascinating engineered 
systems in the world, and they're out there,   right in the open for anyone to have a 
look! once you start paying attention,   it's pretty satisfying to look for all 
the different types of railcars that show   up on the tracks, and in future videos, i'm 
going to show you a lot more. if you've been   inspired to keep your eye out, we put together 
a checklist that you can use to keep track of   the cars you've seen. it's linked below 
in the description, but that's not all. if you've watched my channel for any length 
of time, you know that almost every video i   make is connected to something you can see 
in your own surroundings. you might even   know i released a book about it: engineering in 
plain sight: an illustrated field guide to the   constructed environment. and now, i'm launching 
a companion game too. this is infrastructure   road trip bingo. our brains have a stupendous 
capacity to ignore all the fascinating details   that are hidden in plain sight, and road trips are 
the perfect opportunity to open your mind's eye.  infrastructure road trip bingo is just what it 
sounds like: a spotting game to play with your   fellow passengers. each sheet has 24 engineered 
structures that you might see on a typical road   trip. some you're sure to spot. some you might 
need to try and influence the driver to take a   special detour. get a line of 5 before anyone 
else, and you win. all the icons were designed   by the illustrator for my book, and there's a 
cross reference table inside the cover if you   want to learn more about a particular square. 
tear-off sheets mean you'll have plenty   of chances to play and win, and the squares 
are randomized so that no game ends the same. is this a silly idea? of course it is. but, what 
i've learned from you over all these years is that   you're enthusiastic about the built environment 
just like me. engineering in plain sight hit the   publisher's weekly best seller list, and it's 
still topping out categories on amazon nearly   a year later. so i wanted to give you a chance 
to put those observation skills to the test.   infrastructure road trip bingo goes on pre-sale 
today, only on my website, and they'll start   shipping later this year. and if you still don't 
have my book, you can get a copy bundled with your   game for a huge discount as well. you can get it 
from any retailer, but if you buy from my website,   i signed every single copy in our warehouse. 
these are awesome gifts, or treat yourself with   something fun and cool, and support what we're 
doing on practical engineering while you're at   it. that link's in the description. thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think!