- here, lemme turn it on. - [jessie] oh! - don't worry about it, it
always does that, it's okay. - people think that everyone at lmg must have the most
cutting-edge tech in our homes. - or that everyone here is
a pc building aficianado. - but the truth is very different. - so today, we're going to
show you our own personal rigs. - and tell you the real story of how they were built and bought. - just like how we're
gonna show off our sponsor, ridge wallet. ridge wallet has redefined
the traditional wallet with its compact frame
and rfid blocking plates. keep your wallet bulge down
and use our offer code linus to save 10% and get
free worldwide shipping. (techno music) - i actually started this originally on a free 8100 from my friend, like an i3-8100. and that got me on the coffee lake. nowadays, i've got a
9900k, and i've got a 3070. i was actually crazy
lucky, i got mine at msrp, and the original msrp, too, so i think mine was like
850 after tax, or something, i got it for a pretty good,
canadian, so you know, it's a little less than
that in american dollars, but yeah, pretty good, hey? - this pc i actually
built pretty recently now. i have sort of evolved my
computer over the years, it's a lot of iterations with
a lot of the same hardware, but this one is mostly pretty new. so we got inside, it's a
5900x cooled by an nh-d15s, a rtx 3080, i think this
is the for the win 3 one? one terabyte, gen four, corsair ssd, two four terabyte hard drives that i have in raid 0 for games, and that's pretty much it. this is a really weird configuration, 'cause as you can probably
tell, it's a giant case, this is the corsair 5000x,
this is like as big as they get without going to the 1000d. previously i had an igx rig, and i finally got my own place
over the last couple years, and i don't have any need to
move this computer anymore, so i'm like "screw it, i'll just get the biggest gosh
dang case i possibly can," and that's what this is. now i can fit so much hardware, if i want, but i haven't got a new motherboard. i still have the x570, i think
it's x570-i strix from asus. it's a little igx, little nugget in there, it takes up like not even
a quarter of the case. - little backstory, i went
to school for 3d animation, and 3d modeling. and they gave me this laptop to work with. this is a alienware r3 17, has 16 gigs of ram, 970m, and a 650h. this was okay, but, when i came home from
england three years later, i needed something that
actually could do work. and a 970m just doesn't have
the horsepower or the overhead to render intense scenes, or
even to load geometry fast. so, i put together this monster. this starting is a 1950x threadripper, 16 cores, 32 threads. this is my bread and
butter for 3d modeling. granted, it is not the fastest, but the more cores you have,
the more efficient workflows and divisions of that workflow you have. next i have two 1080 tis. these are asus strix 11 og, and these are again for rendering. even though i have a sli bridge here, half the time i actually
have it turned off, because rendering itself
doesn't actually use the bridge. actual cost at the time,
because ram was expensive, threadripper was expensive, it was about $7000. but, i was lucky because my parents decided to try mining at the time, and luckily, we had some
mining cards laying around, so i got both of them for $800 each. - i remember i waited a really long time to actually buy a laptop, because i'd been looking
at the dell xps forever. but they were doing a refresh in 2020, and on may 13th, 2020,
i ordered it immediately as soon as they launched the pre-orders. so my xps has the intel
i7-10875, comet lake, and it's got a 1650ti gpu, and i've actually upgraded the ram from 16 gigs to 32 gigs, because that was a fairly
inexpensive upgrade, and one that i didn't need immediately, and dell's upgrade price for
the ram was not worth it, so i just waited a little longer, waited for ram to go on sale, and then upgraded it to 32 gigs. the main thing i actually use
this for is photo editing, and general purpose pc usage
like internet browsing, netflix once in a while. sometimes a little bit
of light video editing, but lately not so much. and i find that, whenever
i do a photo shoot, and i want to edit the photos immediately, i usually just have my laptop with me, so i'll go to a coffee
shop or somewhere chill, and photo edit for maybe
an hour after a shoot, and it gives me that kind of
immediate satisfaction like "okay, well this went well,"
or "this didn't go well," or "i can fix this here," and that workflow for me is so much more conducive to creativity, and i can do it immediately. - [jessie] where's your pc? - it's right here, hold on. it is by far my most
favorite pc i've had to date. - [jessie] wait, that's not a... - [andy and jessie] that's not a pc! - it plays games! right? - [jessie] sure? - so i built my pc in the
peak of covid in 2020, around like february or march, just when that stimulus check hit. ooh, delicious. i don't know, honestly,
the whole build is like, 2020 reddit's recommended part list. 3600 from amd, cooler master hyper 212, and msi gtx 1070 that i got used, because, this market nowadays,
especially around the time when i bought this thing, was crazy, like, i was lucky to get this
around $300 canadian range. - [jessie] 300 bucks? - yeah, no, seriously, 300 bucks. dead serious. yeah, shout-out to the
guy who i bought it from from facebook marketplace
for selling this bad boy for a hot $300. you the man. - like, look at this, it comes
with its own input device. it started off in 2002, when i got the first version of my pc, and every 10 years or so i've
been walking into best buy and buying the next version. it's been great, it has
been a great performer, it has expandable storage, using one of these usb ports, and it's been very upgradeable, using one of these usb ports, and the performance of it
has been fantastic, you know? i can go home, i can play gta v, and i can go and make myself dinner by the time it loads a mission. it's fantastic. - it's an intel core i7 4790k. and that's it. - [jessie] you have a gtx 980 ti. - and there's a gtx 980 ti. yeah, it was painted in a ltt video, and it happened, look... you might have noticed from the photos that the computer seems to
be very awkwardly positioned in another room. that's why i didn't bring
the computer in today, is because what i did, was it was getting too hot in that room, because you know, computers put out heat, so i thought "oh, i'll just
shove it into the next room and close the door. and then all the heat
will be in another room." but then of course you
need to have longer cables, and i just didn't wanna
unplug all of that, so i didn't. 'cause it's annoying. and now i can have air
conditioning in the office, because then i'm not having
to warm and cool the air, which is stupid, right? so, that's what that's about. so i built the system, there's a video of the
motherboard led just blinking, and linus didn't even
know what the problem was, but yes, i needed a new motherboard. so i get that all working, and then, there's a power outage. and when the power came back
on, there must've been a surge, 'cause then the power supply was screwed. and the computer kept randomly
shutting off or restarting, and i thought "oh, it's
just windows updates," 'cause you know. and then there were
still some problems, but, i finally have solved all of
the problems and now it works. yeah, i don't know the specs, i don't know how to build computers
nearly as well as linus does, and i've made a lot of mistakes, and it just works now, i guess. - at the tail end of 2019, i decided to move down to vancouver, in the hopes of finding a
job at an animation studio. unfortunately, and fortunately, i found a nice place here. so i don't actually do
much 3d work anymore, except here, like i designed
the build corner set, the podcast set, shortcircuit set, and other than that really,
i don't touch it much. so, my use case for this type
of system has kind of dropped. in the future, what i'm probably gonna do is lean more towards a gaming-type rig, even though now that i have a son, that's not gonna happen much, either. - [jessie] you have probably
the cleanest cable management that anyone's shown yet. you think you can show us the back? (sighs) - this front is fine, but, this is slightly embarrassing. i'm not really happy with it, it is kind of a mess, and honestly this case,
as beautiful as it is, isn't the most easy to work with. you're like, "who looks at the backside? it's not clear. don't worry about it." - the moment of truth, the
cable management, that's right. oh my goodness. it's not bad. the power supply isn't modular at all, so i did my best with what i got, so, i found as many twisty ties as i could, and i popped it in there. for me, the most important
thing is that it'll play all the newer games that
come, at medium settings, at 1080p, i don't know. it's nothing special, but
it does the job for me, and i'm more than happy with her. - i don't remember quite
where this started. i have had a consistent
mostly white color scheme, but i think the earliest
iteration of this was a 4770k, with a crappy i think gigabyte motherboard that ended up dying, and a node 304. it's a cute little case, kinda
looks like a mini fridge. but the problem with
it is, the power supply is in the front, like here. your motherboard's back here,
and then the fan is up here. so, the airflow just completely
misses the motherboard. so i would look at temps, and the vrms would be at
like 95 degrees all the time. and of course one day i come home, go to turn my computer on, nothing happens. something you guys might not realize, but, if you have any friends
that are say mechanics or contractors or something like, you might've heard from them that mechanics don't like
working on their own cars 'cause they spend all day working on cars, and it kinda is the same for people that build
computers all the time. i just have no interest in
touching this thing ever. it works, i just leave it. ah... you guys just got scammed. took the side panel off, can't even see. - [jessie] remove the other side panel. - i can't, well maybe just a little bit. okay, yeah, i can manage a little. yeah, this is not bad, actually. another reason i actually
ended up with this case is, i built a system for ltt in this case, and i realized, it looks really nice and it
comes with the rgb pre-wired, and it has really nice
cable tiedown spots, so, you can see this whole portion
is pretty nicely managed, but these were pre-installed,
you just had to undo 'em, slide the cables in and tighten 'em up. the only one i really added was here, but i think i could add a little bit more, i think i could do a little
better with the cable ties, maybe from lttstore.com? you know, you guys can get
your own at lttstore.com. there we go, look, that's even better. - i've got a one terabyte
m.2 nvme on the board, inside there, and then i've
got an extra one terabyte ssd, just plugged into the back whenever. i've got these blue extensions
that i bought from cablemod. this orange extension is
just for sata, i think. or no, it's a molex extension, 'cause i've actually got... so then if you'll notice, i
actually put a sound card in. i know, it's a sound card. i bought it because my drivers broke. i could not for the life
of me figure it out, i reinstalled windows,
i formatted everything, i rebooted it, my drivers
were still broken, i don't know what
happened, i honestly don't. they're fine now, so i don't
even need this thing anymore, but to its credit, this sound
card does have a little better than the onboard audio, so i'm overall not
unhappy with my purchase. plus, it has rgb when that's going, and so i'm not gonna complain. but yeah, i needed a
molex connector for it. like who uses molex anymore, right? yeah, so for the back... i guess linus isn't the only
one who drops stuff, now. i have a lot of extensions
and stuff running, so there's a lot of cable back here, but that's why i love this case, is because you've got all of this space for cable management. - so i was super stoked on the laptop, and i had it for about two weeks, and i had it in the office, was just using it normally, and then alex actually walked
up to me to try it out, and he tried out my
touchpad, and informed me that i actually had the
touchpad issue that was going on in the first early units
of this version of the xps, where there's i think a
weird dead zone on the left. i then proceeded to have
to send it back to dell and get a replacement, which was actually a pretty
good experience overall, they were very quick and responsive, and they had me a new unit
in less than two weeks from my first email. but yeah, honestly, besides that, that's been the only quirk that i've had, battery life has been good on this thing, speed's been good, the touch display has
been very responsive, and i actually, i used
to make fun of linus while we were shooting videos
back in the day with laptops that were first getting
touch screens, saying like "oh, that's not necessary,
it's really dumb, why would you want that?" and i will admit, i have
started using it probably daily. especially things like pinch to zoom, or if you're looking at a photo and you really wanna move around to edit a different part of it, it's pretty handy. - so, the reason why i only
have this, as well as my switch and then my old consoles is because i grew up in a console household, we were only allowed one system, and as much as i would see other people building pcs at the time, and wanting to learn more about it, i never quite had the
funds to build my own, and so the best bang for the budget to get into playing games for me was simply to just buy an xbox. and especially this, you know, it's the one x, it was the
most powerful at its time, up until about nine months ago, and when it was on sale,
it was a very easy buy, you just throw down the
money and then, you know, you can easily make it your own by getting different
accessories if you wanted to. and you can kinda tell,
thanks to the dbrand skin job that i half attempted on here, you might be saying "matt, why
is there no skin on the top?" easy, 'cause i suck at
skinning devices, that is why. - [jessie] so what do you use for tasks you'd normally do on a pc? if you even need to do any. - there's this really awesome thing, and it's pretty great, i'll
show you quick fast here. it's called samsung dex. (chuckles) but essentially, everything that i do is always done off of my phone, so, i would make music videos
for my band back in the day, and i would cut the
videos using adobe rush. i would take pictures from the stage, and i'd edit them in lightroom on mobile. and then anything from my gopro, i would use the gopro app, and
just fix it up there as well, but, everything pc-based was
either done on my 2012 hp envy, which is way back in
winnipeg, because it's broken, or otherwise, everything
was done off of my s10. you wanted to see what my home pc is, and this is pretty much it. the only other thing, really, would be, you know, you gotta have
your mic system for your pc, and then, you know, the
whole thing about a pc is, you're buying it so that
you can have access to as many games as possible, and while i like that approach, you can also buy another console, and then you have even
more access to games. so, i bought a switch
when they first came out. - [jessie] is that a steam deck? - this is how i play
every game that i want to. other than playstation,
because my name's not david, and i don't like the dualshock controller. - thanks to pulseway for
sponsoring today's video. pulseway lets you centrally manage all your desktop servers, network devices and cloud
infrastructure from one place. you'll be the first person to
know when a user has an issue, or when there's a problem
with your it environment, you'll have out of the box
commands to take actions, like killing processes,
resetting user passwords, running powershell
commands, backing up files, and even remote control. with powerful auto-remediation, pulseway can automatically
resolve critical it issues like low disk space, high cpu usage, and even
restart your services. the patching engine will
prevent vulnerabilities by checking for updates for
both your operating system and third party applications, and run those updates for you
on a schedule you can define. and the best part is, you can do all of that from a mobile app, or from the desktop. so try it free today at pulseway.com, or through the link in the
description down below. if you like this video, maybe go check out our favorite tech show and
tell we did a few months back, and get subscribed so you don't miss any of our future content, like how 'bout some linus smart home stuff that i'll be working on, because all the stuff i do is fantastic, and you should subscribe so you can get more of
the stuff that jake does, and more of the stuff
that other people do, but mostly the stuff that
i do, because i'm great.