- really? dude, just pull it. here, we are using our
precise three flames to get the ball to exactly 1000 degrees. when it turns orange, that
means the ball is 1000 degrees. that's what they taught
you in public school. our first science experiment is proving that size doesn't matter. look at how easily that little
ball defeated that big ball. my fellow small-ballers, we have a chance. all right, lift it up. - it's like magic. - bro, that's really crazy. - oh, i don't want to break the styrofoam. - yeah, styrofoam's bad,
don't burn the styrofoam. next, we took the 1000 degree ball and tried to forge a flute
to play a song for the gods. will pewdiepie hear our cries? - two, one. - very few people know this but it's actually a scientific fact that spaghettios scream when
they feel threatened. next, we wanted to make sure
the ball was using good hygiene because it's very important
to brush your balls. do you brush your balls?
- i brush my balls daily. - i only brush my right ball. in this next clip, we attacked the onions with all three 1000 degree items. but little did we know that shrek's warning was actually crucial. - layers, onions have layers. - dude, are onions like impenetrable? - i guess so.
- all right. well this was a terrible idea, next item. we decided to test
which 1000 degree object is better at cutting a watermelon. the 1000 degree knife started quick but could barely make it through. the 1000 degree sword couldn't even make it
through the watermelon skin. the 1000 degree ball
is clearly the winner. i mean not only did it go through the skin but it also made boiling
hot watermelon soup, which clearly the 1000 degree king enjoys. - dude. - next, we wanted to see what would happen if we cut an already cut
pizza with a 1000 degree sword and you guys won't believe what happened. after cutting the pizza, we decided to see what would happen if we cut a pizza with
a 1000 degree pizza. - the prophecy is true. - global warming is not a myth. this ball represents the sun and this ice cream is
clearly the polar ice caps. wake up, sheep. this 1000 degree sword represents
all your co2 emissions. just look at how much you're
damaging the polar ice caps. stop with the axe spray. - is it loud enough?
- you see what you're doing? - yeah, i do. - and finally, this 1000 degree knife represents your carbon footprint
carving into the earth. lame. all right, let's get some cool stuff. burning all these objects clearly made the 1000 degree knife involved very dry. so we have 1000 degreed a bottle of moisturizer to hydrate them. 1000 degree metal skin matters too. you guys obviously know
the world is flat but for some reason, the government
keeps telling us it's round and that's because they're trying to keep globe sales high because
globe manufacturing actually makes up 84%
of the earth's economy. but screw that, i don't care if 84% of the earth's money goes
to making round earths. we're gonna prove to the world it's flat. now kids, make sure you always wear protection during your naughty times. even 1000 degree swords
need to be careful. that's sword-ist. why don't they make fireproof condoms for 1000 degree swords? - fireproof condoms? - we wanted to test an experiment and see if we poured hot
sauce on our 1000 degree ball, would it make it hotter? because you know, it's hot sauce, so it should make it hotter. - i don't think that's how that works. - that is crazy.
- that is how it works. here, we wanted to use the 1000
degree knife on a sandwich. wait, that's a hot dog. no, it's a sandwich. i'm pretty sure this is supposed to be between me and you, chris. - it is. - next, we decided to torch, what is this? - this is an alien egg. - you know what that looks like to me? - after we penetrated the alien egg, we dropped our hot bomb in its egg. when you're like me, you go
through a lot of microwaves. and sometimes you just don't
have one laying around, so you decide to use a 1000
degree ball to pop some popcorn. oh. let's see how it tastes. - let's try our popcorn out. it's not good. - the toilet paper on the right is when you use toilet
paper on a normal day. the toilet paper on the left
is after you eat taco bell. as you guys know, i still
don't have a microwave. so i wanted to test
and see which is better at cooking a pop-tart, a
1000 degree bowl or a knife? - or the knife.
- the results might shock you. have you ever wondered what a 1000 degree knife does to an egg? well, the results are excellent. it's like cooking it but that's crazy. - it like doesn't want to stick to it. - don't you hate it when
you try to put butter on your toast and it won't spread
because it's just too cold? drop a 1000 degree ball on it and then it's easier to spread. as you can see, since
pewdiepie is clearly a god, even his picture cannot be
harmed by a 1000 degree ball. this test basically proves he's immortal. next, we're gonna see how my channel holds up against a 1000 degree sword. that's no uploads for two weeks, ah. oh look, no. ah, it's demonetization. - half a month since we donated to a twitch streamer. - ah. - now for the pinnacle, here's for being a pewdiepie clone. - it hurts. - ah.
- the truth hurts. - ah. oh no, somebody just called
you a leafy clone, ah. - ah. it hurts even worse. everyone knows the standard
unit of measurement is pizza boxes, not your
stupid metric system. so we wanted to see how many pizza boxes a 1000 degree ball could go through. oh, there it goes, watch it, watch it. there it goes, ah. this one was a side boy. - whatever it takes, man. - whatever it takes. dude, we're throwing ashes
everywhere, who cares? it went through four boxes. this is the strongest substance ever made. it's stronger than
obsidian from "minecraft." darn. so you're telling me
that can break obsidian? - i guess so. - why doesn't "minecraft" have swords? oh, they do, whoops. wait, what?
- whoa. that was magic. - i'm so confused, how? - watch it back.
- play that back. - wait, what?
- whoa. - we also wanted to see how well a 1000 degree ball could play
"fortnite" and it turns out that 1000 degree balls are
actually better than ninja. why don't all guys just
play with their balls? - hello. - did you draw a smiley face.
- yeah. - i wanted to take
revenge on a pool because a pool almost made me sick
in one of my recent videos. chris wanted to do a joke
about cutting his nuts. so here you go, chris is cutting his nuts. chris has no nuts, confirmed. next, we wanted to try to
cook cookies with a 1000 degree knife because i'm sick
of people baking cookies. you're supposed to cook them. it's literally in the name, cookies. - they're stiff. - the viking has a 1000 degree sword and is going to attempt
to slice the car in half. this is a dumb idea. - you ready?
- yeah. - three, two, one. - dude, jake is so strong. i see some smoke. don't stab me. next, we're gonna attempt a
1000 degrees saw versus car. calm down there, save it for the car. we definitely didn't cut a
hole using the saw in the car. so now cut it with your 1000 degree sword. - what the heck? - dude, just put it in
the hole already, jeez. he literally just took the sword and just cut the car in half. - it's 'cause he's a viking.
- what a mad lad. - how'd you do that, jake?
- i just stabbed it. - now what you're looking at right now is us doing the thumbnail. obviously as you saw earlier,
we cut the car in half. so now we're just trying
to get a cool thumbnail. like look at that pose. that one, oh, that's a good pose. ooh, i really like that one. - that one's my favorite.
- is it? - mm hmm.
- i am so shocked and sad. i can't believe someone would do this. leave a like if you are depressed. [music] oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh [music] [music] oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh [music] [music] oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh [music] [music] oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh [music]