- hello, welcome back to a very special broke
vs pro episode. ken pick a box, literally any box. - okay. - so today the challenge is simple. so inside each of the mystery boxes, matt and i have put together
a list of components and it's all thanks to our
wonderful sponsor micro center. inside of each of these mystery boxes is either a great, an okay, or
a not so great pc component. but the real kicker is will it actually be a well-rounded system or will it be a frankenstein's monster of random pc goodness. well, maybe not goodness
in some of these cases - oh, this is an amd ryzen
5 3600, 3.6ghz 6-core with the wraith cooler. - for round two, we only have
two boxes to choose from. are you going to get something great? are you gonna get something terrible? who knows? - 50 50 shot. austin is trying his best to fumble around with these boxes and try
to throw me off the trail. but there's no real way of me
telling which box has what? so actually i don't even think he knows what's in these boxes. so there's no rhyme or reason here. i just... it's up to chance. it's really all it is. it's just up to chance. i'll pick this one. okay. just before we get too carried away. - okay. - ooh, okay, okay. msi x570 mpg gaming edge wifi motherboard. x570 let's go. - x570, hard to get much
higher end than that. too bad you didn't pick
what was in this box but i guess you'll never know. - is it a b550 by chance? - yes, checkmate. what do we have next? - so here come the big
marbles, does even say here comes the big marbles here
comes the big chalupa, here comes the big chungus? - okay. are these are
these graphics cards? - these are graphics cards. - okay. - which graphics card do you want? all right. what'd you get? - it's not awful. - go ahead. - msi geforce gtx 1660 which is actually not a bad
pairing with my processor. - none of that pairing at all. so you're building a
pretty mid-range system. yeah. i'll just take these to much much better graphics
cards and hide them away. so don't worry about those. what items are left? what can you possibly
be going for right now? do you know what's up? - ram - yeah, this ram. okay, good, good guests good job. - this is going to be
like two gigs of ram. isn't it? - we would never go ahead, what's in there. - crucial eight gigabyte ddr four to six, six, six
single channel memory. - oh no. ken, is that not enough
ram for your game pc bill? do you wish you would've picked this box? that'll be enough to run fortnight. i mean, you've got single channel. does anyone need more than
a single channel of memory? i don't think so. that's really the sweet
spot for ryzen five. all right. how are you feeling? confident
you like your system? - mostly confident. the ram is still a little
bit of a, yeah, that's a that's a thing, but i am curious to see
what you have next here. what is this? - this will be your storage devices. we almost had a third option,
which was just going to be a usb drive that you
had to put windows off of. but we decided that that
was going to be a little bit too mean. - you mean not the 32 gigabyte flash drive that micro center gives you
when you visit the store. every time you walk in? - you mean the promotion that if you sign up using the link in the description and you can get now a free
32 gigabyte micro sd card but also a free usb flash drive? but no, instead you have to work with what's inside of these boxes. you want to do this one, right? - actually. yeah. why not? - oh, you did do that one. okay. wow. - no. why not? i mean, what's the worst that can happen. that is the worst that can happen. oh, toshiba one terabytes 7,200 rpm hard drive. - i'll just take your much
faster ssd out of the equation. so we'll just put that down there. i'm feeling bad for you. so... - are you? - no, absolutely not. but here we go. here are three options that are
for your peripherals, right? so we're talking mouse, keyboard, headset all that kind of fun stuff. right? okay. middle option. what you got ? - this is going to be bad. this is going to be bad. - oh, it's not bad at all. all it says is best. - yes, because these are
some peripherals that were kindly provided to us by steel series. so you have an entire array
of the best that you can get. so if you would like right
now, you can lock your system and you can go home proudly to
build yourself this exact pc. and that's the end. - okay. - or - or - i happen to have a few
boxes you didn't pick. if you'd be willing to,
i don't know, barter for some of your items, you
might have a couple upgrades. - wait, so i can, i can exchange. i can actually try to negotiate. - i'm accepting all offers. - right? i'll put it
back components in there. so i'm going to be trading the eight gigabytes of single
channel memory got crucial. - okay. - and the toshiba one terabyte hard drive. these are the two things that i feel like are going to hold me back the most. - so problem here is ken is
starting to catch on to the game because of cause this is sponsored by our friends at microcentrum,
he's starting to realize that we don't actually
have anything bad right? no matter what he picks, it's
actually going to be fine, which puts me at a disadvantage
because he's not gonna be as afraid of the other
boxes that i have prepared, knowing that i don't actually have any literal garbage inside them. i don't have enough
components to do proper trade. so i'm just going to make
sure it's okay with my boss. - that's what i thought. - don't dump it. - that's what i bought. - and this counted.
okay. i have to, oh yes. yes. we're going to, matt and i are going to confer on
how we're going to do this. - they weren't expecting
me to outsmart them. - no, i expected you to outsmart austin. - all right. after conferring with my
co-conspirator matthew, we have now given you two
boxes, inside one of these boxes are the components that you gambled. - okay. - inside the other box are upgrades to the components that
you put up on offer. however, regardless of
which box you choose there will be a penalty because
you have broken the rules of the game and angered the game show god. so just know that you're
already screwed in some way. we're going to steal something from you. - okay. well, i don't got a choice now. so eeny, meany, miny moe. okay cool. oh, cool. wait. okay cool. same ones. - in the other box well
you could have got, it was 32 gigs of 4,000
megahertz memory and an ssd. however, you did not get
these crucial components which means that you're stuck with that now because
you opted to go for it. we've now taken something from you. be a shame if you were say
to lose your cpu cooler and instead go down to the
most basic cooler possible. i'm ripping your box up right now 'cause i'm stealing it from you. 'cause i'm a vengeful game host. so now comes the twist. i am now building a game pc today. instead i am taking
advantage of the last broke versus pro game pc that
i built alongside kyle. - oh - however, not only am i just using the
system that was very powerful and completely ready to
kick your ass already, i'm now going to take
all the best components that you didn't get. matt, if you would please. so you could have had a
brand new ryzen nine 50 900 x also something i'm going
to personally be stealing. so enjoy all of this. have fun - right? with this aoc 27 inch
monitor and everything else on the table that you saw in
the game show portion earlier, i have everything that i need, or at least was given to beat
austin at mystery box broke versus pro. i also have this nzx t h five
10 that we've built in a lot. i built a lot in this case over the past couple of years
that i've worked for austin and all of that will hopefully
mesh well aesthetics wise with what i have. - (upbeat music) - welcome to day two, where
we have two completed systems. if you're wondering why it
is four 30 in the afternoon because we spent all day waiting for ken to install his games. how are you coming there? - i finished. that one
terabyte 7,200 rpm hard drive making my life absolutely
miserable, but i got to say, i think i'm pretty confident with how the performance
is going to go on this. - okay. so let's take a
look at the actual systems. just as a recap, i am
using the ryzen nine 5900x that ken so graciously
donated to the cause. i also have that rtx 3060 tei from the original micro center bill. i also have 32 gigs of super fast 4,000 megahertz
course their memory. - so in my system, i have a gtx 1660 a ryzen five 3601 terabyte , 7200 rpm toshiba hard drive, an eight gigabytes of 2666 megahertz ram. so i have the apex pro keyboard which has adjustable switches. you can change the
actuation point if you want, this artist pro wireless headset as well. this is a, this has been really good. and it comes with this nice
little dak module too here, which shows you what input you are on. - well i have my art to seven headset, which might not be the best, but, it's the next best thing. i also have really the mouse
is really what kills it for me. this thing is incredibly lightweight. - on my end, we have this
gigantic gaming desk pad that has the really cool rgb
also brings steel series. the three xl. the only thing is that
technically this was my win from the card that i pulled,
but because it's the size of the desk, i decided
to share it with austin - literally fits almost our entire desk. we couldn't even fit two
of these if we tried. you've also got the aoc
display, which is much better than my old faithful
that lives in our review table. - you have a 10 80 p monitor, right? - yes. that is 10 80 p 146 hertz. - right, and this is 1440
p it has a 1500 curve on it which is actually really
aggressive when you look at it on front of the side here. but the colors on this are really good. they're really good
considering that they're not like an ips display. most importantly, great
for gaming 144 hertz. - while we each have good
systems, mine's better and case in point benchmarks. so we've taken the liberty
of running centimeter ahead of time. and i got a school 1,579 in
a single threat and 21,000 on multi what you're looking at over here? is that half my multi-course? - my thing here is that austin's
bill is actually way more higher end than mine. i think in terms of value,
and in terms of gaming prowess i don't really think it
matters all that much - but we have more
benchmarks including 3d mark. here we go. on 11,501 3d mark time,
skype, skype time sky. i'm so excited. ton of spike. ken, time sky spike. - i don't think the
sponsors would like that one - where, where are you at? where are you at? - misally 5,573. - so less than mine. so not only do i have
double the cp performance i have double the gaming performance. - yes. that is quite the
difference between a 30 60 tei and a 1660. i will say that valorant literally takes nothing to run. we ran it on a $500
computer and i streamed from that computer in 10 adp
as well while playing valorant. i think i'm going to get a decent amount of frame rate, like 144
frames, probably maxing out this monitor with the
hardware that's in here. i am not worried whatsoever. - okay.let's do it then. felon one. do you want me bro? - oh, wait. well, no, we're just going to death match because, i don't think you can
handle team games at all. - i'm not a team player. all right. - all right. - let's get in the game. woo. 500 ps. let's go. - whoa, whoa, whoa. i'm lagging. oh, there we go. 162 frames. nice. i'm loving the artist pro a lot. 'cause valorant is a
particularly loud game and the sounds are very important. so i'm like totally down with this. it helps me figure out where
people are pretty quickly , while austin is dying a lot. - all right. i'm not off to a good start. i'm one in four, i
definitely just spine camp someone and i don't care. i need my, i need my kills. - oh, here we go. here we go. those are you. that was you. - that was me. that was me. - ha ha. all right. all right. all right. - how did i not get that? oh my god, that was terrible. - don't run and shoot. - no, i wasn't running. i just missed. i am at seven and 14. this is a deep hole to get out of. wait a second. hang on. there we go. i died. you just killed me as i
was pulling up my mic. cool. thanks. this is embarrassing. yeah. why is everyone good? - hi austin. that flick, that flick though. - i hate everything right now. all right. what was your final score? - 27 kills. - i think i was at 11,
12 and 33, 27 and 27. so surprise, surprise. ken wins the round of valorant. i thought i was going to do better. i actually legitimately thought
i was going to do better because like with these
peripherals and with like 500 fps i have such an advantage. - well, at least you have
the advantage in f1, right? - yeah. all right. let's move on to f1 where
i hopefully have a much better shot at not dying horribly. - can you die in f1? because if you can't, i'm sure you'll find a way to do it. - i can crash - can crash, like like the
first time we played f1. - wait, wait, wait, hold on. hold on. hold on. nope. let's restart. - what, what, what? - it gave me an immediate penalty. - yeah, because you started before i did wait, wait, wait. let's let's let's restart. let's restart nothing. you didn't miss anything. we're totally, totally not
started the race the second time. cause josh cut that whole section out. i got a great jumpstart on you. see, i practice my lunch
because i don't want - 'cause i didn't want to spin out. so i'm just gonna i'm just gonna trail you and
then we'll go from there. - where you at? - i'm coming. don't worry. - oh jesus. okay. why is there a yellow flag, ken? okay. now i'm just going
to cruise the fishes. - oh jeez. oh my god. i keep. - oh, am i doing good? okay. it's okay. it's okay. you just got to hope. i screw up. if i drive nice and slow. now i've got this one. - i just got to catch up 24 seconds. not a big deal here. - you're 24 seconds behind? - yeah no, it's no big deal. - i can taste a victory right now. the champagne spring of my mouth. i have an idea. - oh, what do you got? what do you got? - just doing some victory
donuts, don't worry about it. - are you sure about that? - yeah, victory donuts . - oh jesus christ. man
am just trash today. - although, unfortunately i
did so many victory doughnuts. my rear tires are melted and i can't, i have no grip now. - you probably should have
just finished the race while you were doing your victory donuts. - it's okay. i'll catch up. you'll crash again. - wow i'm 19 seconds ahead now. cool - sometimes you do too
many victory donuts. that's fine. do you usually do them after the race? - yeah, i was going to
say, all right, here it is. here it is boys. here it is. - oh, you won? oh. i fast slap. - you do. congrats. - all right. what did we learn today? victor donuts always worth it. and i will claim honorary
when i can't you do that - gaming skill is all that matters. - thank you very much
for watching this episode of broke versus pro make sure to subscribe and ringling the dingaling
buttons to be always notified the next time we have some
stupid shenanigans like this. until next time i'm going
to go do victory donuts in the parking lot to
make myself feel better. - that's just donuts, not victory donuts.