- i have millions of legos here. that's one box. in each box of like a
hundred thousand legos and we have dozens of boxes. can i borrow yours and
jake's house for the day? i want to fill it with presents. - yes. - seriously, i'm gonna need you to be away from your house for all day. you have to let me know
before you come back. - okay. - just leave and then
we're gonna spend the day filling up with stuff and
then we'll bring you back. so we got permission from jake and bailey to use their house for the day. - yes. - and i told them there's presents and legos are presents, i think. let's go boys. so jake and bailey are gone. before we dump the like 10 million legos, we want put sheets on the floor, that way we don't like scratch the floor. so we can put the legos on 'em. - ah, like that. - now that we put sheets down
so we don't scratch the floor, we're gonna start dumping the legos. - that felt good. - more! some of them were still in the pack, shh. hey, chandler. - ow. - ah. - you okay? we have a casualty! - puncture wounds. - i wheel-y like legos. wheel-y, wheel-y. - all right, take them up. time to duel! i feel like we should ram into
each other with the boxes. - oh, i hit him in the nuts. - chandler hit my nuts
in the orbeez video. - oh, did he?
- yeah. - all right, then that was payback. - oh, my god it won't stop. it won't stop. - i'm gonna make a lego angel. ow! ow! ah! - all right, we're gonna play a game. we're gonna drop legos on
you guys from the balcony and the one here who stays
the longest wins the prize. - i got all day. - chandler, are you gonna bail out first? - yeah. - you're honest.
- i'm not gonna lie. - this really feels like i'm
laying on glass right now. - my nuts hurt. - last to move gets $300. - he won! - i have an actual brick imprint. brick squad. - i don't have $300, i owe you
the rest, but there you go. so to make it look like we
have more legos than we do, we put boxes on the ground here and, we're gonna put the legos on these boxes, so it's a little more elevated. so it looks like we have like 30 million when we only have like 10 million legos. if you're wondering why
there's no furniture, these guys literally just won this house. and this video right here, "last to take hand off
house," bailey and jake won. that's why there's no furniture here. chandler lost. are you still mad? you could have, you could
be living in this house. - i'm mad.
- you don't seem mad. - that was pretty mad.
- very angry. see that? all right, i'm done. - he's scary when he's angry. - these are the legos from the lego house. - hey, i wanted to say that! - well, i said it. - i'm gonna- - ow! - ow. hey, watch it. - truce. - yeah, just jump them down there. every house needs a lego
table, right here, boys. - what's that hole for? - that's not nailed. holy crap, and that's
not even all our legos. that is so many legos. and we're just getting started. chandler, go dive on the legos. can you confirm, is that a lot? - yeah. - now it's a lot. - so we're waiting on
more legos to come in. and while we're waiting
for the rest of the legos, 'cause we still have a lot more, we're gonna mess with all the other rooms. we're gonna cover bailey's
room in sticky notes. - bailey. there's only room for one
editor in this town, that's me. - go on my instagram and swipe up. - you just ruined all that work. - ah, we can do it again. - tomorrow's the first day of school and you lay your clothes out on the bed. - no, i beat him. - no, that's what i'm
saying, you already beat him. - no, i beat- - now we're gonna fill bailey's
bathtub with bouncy balls. all right, now let's go
do jake's bathtub, whoo! and now this is jake's bathroom. chandler, you get in the bathtub. - really? my socks! - so yeah, we're gonna fill jake's room with purple and yellow balloons because he used to play for lsu. - you guys wanna play a mini game? guess how long it'll take this balloon to pop from blowing it up. guess the time, how long do
you think it's gonna take for this balloon to blow up and pop? - 4.4 seconds.
- 8.3. - i'll go with nine. - all right, ready?
- yep. - 3, 2, 1, go. - nine seconds, i won! - you switched. - you said, you said six. - no, he said nine. - so this is jake's other room. so this room we're gonna fill with fans, 'cause jake has lots of fans. - do you think he'll want this fan? - yes. - are you a fan of jake? are, are you?
let us know. why did that require you to
get so close, get away from me. - who farted, who farted? - not me.
- chris. - it was chandler! it was chandler. - smells so bad, i'm going. i'm just gonna go in here. since this rooms like a gas chamber. these are the fans from
when we tried to see if a hundred fans can push a car. which now, in hindsight, saying that, that sounded like a terrible idea. let me know if one day you
wanna see our inventory. 'cause we have like a hundred fans. a hundred leaf blowers. 10,000 condoms. a hundred million orbeez. we have 10 million legos. dude, we have a lot of stuff. one of these days i'm gonna
show you everything we own. these are all the fans. [music] nevermind i'll find [music] [music] someone like you [music] [music] i wish nothing but
the best for you, too [music] [music] don't forge me [music] - that's it.
- oh. you should go to shopmrbeast.com
to buy your merch. also, four people that buy
merch in the month of january will get flown down here to
participate in a challenge. you know how we just did a last to take hand off house keeps it? we're doing another challenge
like that on february 2nd. except for the only people
who will be competing in it are people who buy merch
in the month of january. so go to shopmrbeast.com, buy a shirt, buy a hoodie, buy a hat. everything you buy will get you one entry. - you might get to compete against me, but it's only so you
guys won't lose first. - that would be way too easy if you gotta compete against him. - now we have a bunch of
boxes filled with pillows. we're gonna fill jake's
bathroom with pillows. 'cause, why not? - i already put the angles here. hello? - hey bailey, we are almost
done revamping your house. so can you come here in like 30 minutes? - yeah, yeah, yeah. - okay, thanks, sorry, we're moving in the new flat screen tv, bye. - okay, bye. - i haven't told you guys about this yet, but since we trashed their whole house, we actually have real presents for them. we have two brand new
cars across the street, and after we're done showing them around their destroyed house, we're
gonna give 'em the keys to their cars and take 'em to it. bailey is almost here. these are the last two boxes of legos. he's about to walk through the
door, it's gonna be insane. - wait, what does this say? t-series, more like l-series. - so we covered bailey's
room in sticky notes. we filled jake's room
with balloons and fans. we put whoopy cushions there. filled jake's bathroom with pillows and bouncy balls. put bouncy balls in bailey's bathroom. and littered their room
with bubble wrap and legos. let's see how they react. - we spent the whole day in your house. what do you think we've done
to the inside of your house? - completely furnished it.
- furnished completely. - you want us to think
you've ruined it in some way, but it's actually completely furnished with like the nicest stuff. hundred percent, yeah.
- jake wanted the couch. my idea is that it's wall to-
- pool table. - it's a pool table. - pool table, pool table. - i'm gonna cut you guys off here, 'cause you you're, you're
getting ridiculously close. all right, go, go inside, boys. - there's stuff hanging from the ceiling. - there's a lot of legos. - let 'em get in the door. - i left my stuff, i'm just gonna- - your first destination
is your living room. take your shoes off. we don't want to make a mess. take your shoes off. - take your shoes off. - take your shoes off, be courteous. - we got bubble wrapped. - hey jake, what are you
gonna build with these legos? - now you should go dolphin dive into those legos over there. - no. - do you like it? - comfy. - chandler, is that it right there? - you look a little stuck. - it's not bad. - we definitely didn't do anything to any of the other rooms, just legos. - it's a recliner. audios gonna great later. all you're gonna hear is- - all right, guys. we got to show them the
rooms at the same time. - there's more to this, bailey. - dude, i would go insane if i had to listen to this all the time. - all right, bailey, you ready? and you're covering your nose, why are you covering your nose? - 'cause they threw stuff at
us the first door i opened. oh, my. it's colorful.
- yeah. - i honestly would leave it up. love that. - you can tell the
point where we were like "i think we're done now." - oh, my gosh. - what do you think of that?
- sweet. - actually, you forgot the best part. - look at your bath tub. - should i get in? - yes, absolutely. - do you need some company?
- yeah. - why is chris taking his
pants off, what is going on? - you can't have your
pants on in the bathtub. - i'm just gonna leave. - this is a bathtub, this isn't a pool. - this is a bathtub. - dude, they're so cold. - [music] two bros [music] [music] chilling in a bathtub [music] - hey, you guys can
keep on doing the tour, we'll be good in here. - we'll just be in here.
- yeah. - the sticky notes is awesome, dude. - well, your rooms are even better. - ha, you guys are getting
pranked with whoopy cushions. - let's check out this bathroom. - dude, you could just lay down. - that's sounded hard. - why are they wet? why are they wet? why is it wet? - some of those are poop pillows, man. - you gotta get in your
ball pit bathtub, man. - there's water in here, isn't there? - all right, someone help me. - you're trapped.
- someone help! - soaked. - what'd you guys think about the legos? - that's insane. - yeah, what'd you think
about the sticky notes? - i like it actually. - yeah, let's proceed
to jake's first room. - hey! what the? - because you played for lsu,
so we wanted to celebrate. did you guys win a
championship or something? - no. - if you get this joke- - you're a level 10 tik tok-er. all right, bailey you up. - my bad, my bad. - is it the gummi bear one? - yeah, he got it! - [music] nevermind, i'll find [music] [music] someone like you [music] [music] i wish nothing but
the best for you, too [music] - don't forget me, oh. - now what? - the biggest gift of all. - okay, all right, we're bringing your real presents out front. - i heard the, i heard the garage. - heard the garage. - to the garage! - oh we're going, we're going. - we're going. - come see your actual present. - close your eyes, don't peek. - there you go. - all right, open your eyes. - yes! - oh, garage, oh, whoa! - is it on? - turn it, twelve point turn. - oh! - what's that? whoa, is that money? - yeah. - uh oh, wait, you check the back? - you got a charger.
- straight cash. - i like the car better. - oh geez. - you trying to tell
me something right now? - i don't know how to make it turn off. - you press the power button. - oh, come on!
- man, it's, oh, it's gone. - what do you think of everything? - it's amazing. - overwhelming, i'm overwhelmed. - i mean, if you don't
like the car just tell me, you don't have to kick it. - i can't control my body. - i love the legos.
- yeah? seriously though, like
jake builds with legos. like you can keep them.
- i'm gonna build a couch. - that's what i'm saying like, what if you guys just built
your furniture out of legos? that'd be cool. - i feel like i've seen that before. - oh yeah, we did do that. i completely forgot about that. we're all done here. we have an army coming here
to help us clean this up. we will have it all cleaned up, hopefully by the end of night. - i don't think we need to clean it up. - all right, you don't
have to tell me twice. all right, see you later. - [music] mr. beast, oh [music] [music] mr. beast, oh [music] [music] mr. beast, oh [music] - all right, jake paulers,
it's the next day, and as you can see,
everything has been picked up. i just wanted to let you guys know that. obviously we didn't make
them clean up this mess.