- pewdiepie versus t-series
has actually been a lot of fun. people from both sides of the competition are clearly enjoying this. look at this, pewdiepie
gained 5 million subscribers in november. like, that's crazy. five mill on youtube in 30
days, never been done before. he's raised a lot of money for charity, and i think he's a good guy. and i wanna support his charity stream. so yeah, let's donate to him. so we're running into a
little bit of an issue. apparently this gofundme only
takes credit/debit cards. and i moved all my money over to paypal. so i have all this
money sitting in paypal, but it doesn't take paypal,
it only takes credit/debit, and all our credit/debit
cards have low limits, in case they get stolen. so, yeah, i'm not quite sure
how we're gonna make this work, but we'll figure it out. so i think we'll do 5,000? is that a good way to start? all right, let's see it pop up. let's see it. the thing is though, like, he's probably not gonna overreact. he'll probably just be like, "thanks."
- oh, wow, thanks. - yeah, i know, right? i'm not expecting an overreaction. i just like pewdiepie. please check your information? - hello, can i speak with mr- - yes, this is him. is this about my cards? - hello, mr- we're calling regarding
the recent activity that has appeared on
your visa credit card. if you don't mind, we would like to verify the online activity today
with gofundme fundraiser? - yeah. we're trying to get 'em to go through. - okay. - can you make us, make it
where my next one goes through please? - yeah, i'm gonna go ahead and close out the alert for you, and just give it approximately
five to 10 minutes for everything to clear up,
and then you can redo your transaction, all right? - all right. - all right, all right. - maybe five to 10 minutes, it might work? - i didn't think we'd get
anywhere near the goal in this livestream, it looks
like we could actually hit it. - he said he'd be so
proud if he hit the goal. all right, we need to figure this out. why is it not taking my card? confirmed? - keep playing oblivion. - no, he went back to oblivion. hey, it went through. - it's 142, now? what the frick happened? - yeah, what the frick happened? - crab song intensifies. - crab song intensifies. - mrbeast. - hey, we made dad happy. - thank you very much, mrbeast. i was wondering when you would show up. - pewdiepie can't get rid of us. like, he's just stuck with us. - mrbeast, god angel. thank you very much. - no problem, dad. it's the least i could do. - where would i be without mrbeast? guardian angel of this channel. - i will fight to the death to win. there we go. i shall wear this badge with the honor. - be careful on the bridge. shut up. shut up. - he's crossing a bridge. can pewdiepie cross the
bridge without destroying youtube's ecosystem? let's find out. - i did it. yes. - he crossed a bridge without
destroying our ecosystem. all right, i wanna give more. i wanna help him. please check your information. all right, guys. so we went to the bank and
we got one of our cards up. so this one supposedly
has like $20,000 on it. it should be fun, hopefully it works. i don't know, we were just at
the bank, they said it would. it is so difficult throwing
my money at pewdiepie. let's try this again. we're gonna try and to do
another 4,000 euro donation. am i getting in trouble for that? what the- why, guys? and it's not taking our money. pewdiepie's only streaming
for 12 more minutes. it's do or die. if we can't give pewdiepie money, we'll give other people
money to give pewdiepie, more viewers to give pewdiepie money. i'm doing my best. i'm sorry, pewdiepie. i just wanna make you proud. go watch pewdiepie's stream and donate. is this a bad thing to do? also, make sure you subscribe. there's our donation. - 'cause i was gonna shoot. - go watch pewdiepie's stream and donate. also make sure you subscribe.
- i'm gonna shoot right here. what, what? go watch pewdiepie's stream and donate. also, make sure you subscribe. $2,000 from mrbeast. now that sounds like the real mrbeast. - oh dude, if he pulls
up pewdiepie's stream. yes! we're adding 20,000 viewers
to pewdiepie's stream. that's right, pewdiepie, love me. - raising money for indian nine year olds. okay, i'm gonna make a donation. - yes! yes! dude, what if, what if i donate to him, and he donates the money to pewdiepie? - gofundme only takes
credit and debit cards, i only have paypal. all right, well listen, i'm gonna donate your $2,000
directly to pewdiepie. - yes! - donate this as well. - i had to confirm because like- - donate this as well. - another 2000 from mrbeast. donate this as well, i got you. - thank you guys so much for
watching this live stream, we hit the goal-
- no. sypher was about to give him four grand. no, don't end it. hurry, sypher, get the donation! - i'm so proud of you guys. - the comment is gonna be, "this money is from mrbeast." - look at his chat. everyone's like, "hurry, hurry, hurry." - it's literally right there. - the nine year olds-
- there it is, there it is. can we do more? - thank you guys for
watching this live stream. i'll see you again.
- no! - next time.
- you see a chat? - ah. and i just sent sypher another two grand. whoops. hmm. the funny thing is, pewdiepie
has no idea what's going on. if pewdiepie saw this, he'd
probably be like "what? this was happening?" oh, and there's my other $2,000 donation. - mrbeast with another $2,000. yeah, we can do more. he's not streaming, you want me to just- you want me just to donate
directly to the gofundme? - yes, just donate anyways. - okay, okay, okay. okay, so that's 3000. - we're gonna spend a few grand going around campaigning for pewdiepie. and then at the end of the video, even though pewdiepie's
not live streaming, think i'm just gonna give $10,000 to cry, like directly through their thing. the struggle.
- all right. making another donation of $2,360. - i feel bad for a
hijacking sypher's stream. 20,000 viewers, top of twitch. we're just like, "hey,
pay attention to us." - you don't have to do it now, you can donate it later. enjoy your stream dad.
- mrbeast. you guys missed it. we just donated $3,150
through mrbeast's money. he needed us as a middle man, because they only accepted
credit cards, not paypal. - subscribe to pewdiepie.
- stuff together. i don't feel bad giving
these guys two grand, because i think this is
also a charity stream. - pewdiepie, pewdiepie,
pewdiepie, pewdiepie pewdiepie, pewdiepie. like to say the n word online. say it, say it, say it, . - what is this? - i don't know. what are they doing? well, i mean, they're busy, it's fine. let's find a- oh, look, dude, i was
about to click on hers. i didn't even realize that was alinity. is this a bad idea?
- nope. - will i get in trouble if i-
- nah. - i just want to tell her
to subscribe to pewdiepie. - okay, so, who wants the invite? - you press the button, i
don't wanna get in trouble. chris is donating to her. - all right, here we go. boom. full send. oh, there it is. - are you serious? there's a lot of money to- - subscribe to pewdiepie. - there's a lot of money to
say "subscribe to pewdiepie." that is a lot of money just to say that. - oh, she's not mad at us? - no, she's not mad. - like you should use that space in there to say something good, and you pick to say,
- oh. - "subscribe to pewdiepie." what is wrong with you? his name is mrbeast. he wants to play, he
paid $500 just to play? - no. nope, nope, nope, nope. - should we tell ninja's viewers
to subscribe to pewdiepie? - yeah, let's- ninja's viewers probably will understand. - well, ninja's a big boy. like it's not really worth
it unless it's like a lot. you know what i mean? like-
- yeah. - he gets paid the big bucks.
- yeah. - subscribe to pewdiepie. - lord of the unknown, thief of the , thief of the five. whoa. that's not actually mrbeast, right? it was $5,000 from mrbeast. dude said "subscribe
to pewdiepie's channel. dude stop t-series today." - we will keep him ahead forever and ever. - all right, we just did another thousand. [music] you're try dethrone me [music] [music] for spot at number one [music] [music] but you india, you lose, [music] - oh, look at that! he's plugging pewdiepie. to 50,000- . [music] look at t-series [music] [music] they just cryin' for their mama [music] - let's pull up- look at his sub count goin' up. oh, there we go. that's a hundred subscribers. nine year olds out there, let me know if an effective
campaigning strategy is occasionally donating to ninja. i'm willing to do whatever it takes. - for mrbeast with another thousand. beast, man, do you wanna stand
how insane you are, dude? i wanna have, i wanna
have a cup of coffee. i wanna sit down, and i
just wanna, i just wanna, and i just wanna talk for an hour. and say pewdiepie by a
hundred thousand times with you again. - let's do it. i'm kidding, i would never do that. and i don't know how you do that. - pewdiepie, pewdiepie,
pewdiepie, pewdiepie, pewdiepie, pewdiepie, pewdiepie,
pewdiepie, pewdiepie, pewdiepie, pewdiepie, pewdiepie,
pewdiepie, pewdiepie, pewdiepie, pewdiepie, pewdiepie,
pewdiepie, pewdiepie- - this is what we wanted. - this is exactly what we needed. - this will give us the
cutting edge advantage. - pewdiepie, pewdiepie,
pewdiepie, okay, i'm done. - but you know that i could have done it. - it's harder than it looks. around the 50,000 mark,
is where it gets hard. - dude, beast, you're a legend, man. honestly, dude, i'll i- i've said this before, you
know pewds came out with a- i mean, well it wasn't
technically pewdiepie, it was gloria borger. gloria had a couple, few
choice words to say about me. i wasn't very happy about it,
but i still support the pewds. - to be fair, pewdiepie can't
be held accountable for what poppy harlow, or gloria borger
says, it's not his fault. all right, epic gamers. it's a new day, and we're
gonna donate to more streamers. doesn't matter how many
streamers you've donated to, there's always more that
can subscribe to pewdiepie. subscribe to pewdiepie,
and after you do that, follow me on instagram, @mrbeast my self esteem stems
from my insta followers, and because it is low, i'm not happy. i just realized i only
did a hundred dollars. i'm mrbeast, i can't just
do a hundred dollars. after this, we'll do a bigger one to her. i'm meant to do a thousand. that's a pity laugh. - that is a pity laugh. - hey, subscribe to pewdiepie. and after you do that, follow
me on instagram @mrbeast. - she's like, what do i say? - thank you so much for the $100 donation. - let's put pewdiepie aside, and all just focus on
following me on instagram. - let's put pewdiepie
aside, and all just focus on following me on instagram. - am i being punked? - yeah. - thank you so much for
the donations, dude. - all right, these guys are good. i'm gonna donate, and ask for lessons. how much do you think i have to donate to get lessons from 'em? - i'd say probably like a thousand bucks. - yeah, actually we'll do
1,001 to ensure i get lessons. can i get lessons? i wanted to be good. chandler, who's really good at smash, and i wanna be better than him. me and chandler have a
game going on tonight. chandler bet his yeezys that
he could beat me in smash, and i bet an instagram shout out. so if he wins, i shout
him out on instagram. if i win, i get his yeezys. we're playing that tonight. i need to get good before then,
'cause i don't wanna lose. - what? crazy. - are you- a thousand dollars? - and his name is even mrbeast. - he forgot the one. - i have to beat chandler. yeezys are on the line. - can i get lessons? of course, man.
- dude. - you can ask anything you want. - yeah. whenever you want lessons,
we're gonna do it. you will get private
sessions as well, dude. - yes!
- what the- - chandler's going down. no instagram shout out for him. - easy. - look at 'em, they're right back to it. they're like, "cool. thanks for the money
and all, but my pride." - well mrbeast, we're
gonna make you a beast. - that's what i want.
- in this game or- - get me where i can beat chandler. 'cause we have a duel coming up tonight. all right, chris, i'll let
you pick the next streamer. what are we giving doom trap god? - well, we don't give youtubers much love. - we'll do $1,002 'cause
youtube's better than twitch. i told twitch people to follow my insta, and now it's time for
youtube people to follow it. also sub- - we got mrbeast just donated- wait, what? no. no, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no way. no way. that is not the real mrbeast, dude. you've gotta be-
- what's up brochaho. - no.
- follow my insta. i feel bad for using this
guy's channel as a billboard to promote my instagram. - no way that is- no way. there's literally no
way, i don't believe it. he's in my you- mrbeast is in my stream, bro!
- there's the realization. - what the- - i don't get reactions
like that on twitch, 'cause everyone thinks i'm fake on twitch. until twitch verifies me, i'm not donating to
twitch streamers anymore. 'cause like, no one ever
knows i'm real on twitch. they always think i'm fake. sup fam.
- what is life? mrbeast is in my stream. what? this is all i know how to do right here. - oh there it is. - oh, my god, mrbeast, i love you. - enjoy your epic victory royale. - a thousand dollars donation. - 1,002. why does everyone forget the end? paypal, i made $1,002 donation,
i want the last $2 back. lele pons is the best youtuber. i don't even, i've never really
watched one of her videos, i just know it's a meme to
make fun of her, so that's it. see, look at that confusion on this face. - you're kidding me right now.
- no, i'm not kidding. lele pons is the best youtuber. - mrbeast just donated $1,500. i don't even know what to- - also, follow lele on instagram. - lele pons is the best youtuber. - that's not funny. - i'm actually shaking. i don't know if you can see this. i'm shaking right now. - oh, dude, wait. we're about to pass her in subscribers. guys, i've started to
take instagram serious. go follow me. part of the reason why
my instagram's so tiny, is 'cause, like, i literally
just started using it. i only have like 56 posts. she has 2200.
- geez. - yeah, see, that's not even fair. she has way more posts than me. i need to catch up. we just took a picture, and we're gonna go put it on instagram. see? oh, nope. gotta go follow me to see it. i'm kidding. also, i don't know how to edit photos, so i have chris do it. if the edit looks bad, it's chris's fault. all right, i'm done. i'm gonna stop plugging my instagram, 'cause literally in a week i won't care. i just realized all the money i'm donating to these streamers, would probably be better
suited, going to cry. so i'm gonna stop donating to streamers, and just give all the
money to the charity. well, the website's down, but i'm pretty sure if i go
on the actual cry website, instead of trying to
go through a gofundme, i'm pretty sure i'll be
able to use my paypal. so i'm gonna do that, and
donate another $10,000. i would do it right now,
but it's not loading. so whenever that loads up, i'll
do another 10 grand to them. hopefully that goes to good use. honestly, i have not done much research, but pewdiepie seemed really
passionate about helping it. and he genuinely seemed to care. and honestly, like, it does sound like it's gonna change a lot
of lives, and you know, if pewdiepie supports it, i support it. so i'll do 10 grand whenever. i don't know, it won't connect. we'll do it later. but, hopefully you guys enjoyed,
and i'll see you next time. [music] mr. beast oh [music] [music] mr. beast oh [music] [music] mr. beast oh [music]