in the past, power generating plants were
only able to serve their local areas. electricity didn't have far to travel between
where it was created and where it was used. since then, things have changed, and most
of us get our electricity from the grid, huge interconnected areas of power producers and
users. as power plants grew larger and further away
from populated areas, the need for ways to efficiently move electricity over long distances
has become more and more important. stringing power lines across the landscape
to connect cities to power plants may seem as simple as connecting an extension cord
to an outlet, but the engineering behind these electric superhighways is more complicated
and fascinating than you might think. hey i'm grady and this is practical engineering. on today's episode we're talking about
electrical transmission lines. this episode is sponsored by hello fresh. more on that later. generating electricity is a major endeavor,
often a complex industrial process that requires huge capital investments and ongoing costs
for operation, maintenance, and fuel. electric utilities only earn revenue on the
power that makes it to your meter. they aren't compensated for energy lost
on the grid. so if we're going to go to the trouble of
producing electricity, we want to make sure that as much of it as possible actually reaches
the customers for whom it's intended. the problem is most power plants are usually
located far away from populated areas for a variety of reasons: land is cheaper in rural
areas, many plants require large cooling ponds, and most people don't like to live near
large industrial facilities. that means that massive amounts of electricity
need to be transported long distances from where it's created to where it's used. power lines are the obvious solution to this
problem, and sure enough, stringing wires (normally called conductors by power professionals)
over vast expanses of rural countryside is, in general, how bulk transport of electricity
is carried out. but, if we want this transport to be efficient,
there's more to consider. even good conductors like aluminum and copper
have some resistance to the flow of electric current. you even can see this at home. we can measure a small drop in voltage when
a hair dryer is plugged directly into an outlet and turned on. trying this again at the end of a long extension
cord, the drop in voltage is much more significant. this difference in power represents energy
lost as heat from the resistance of the extension cord. in fact, this lost power is pretty easy to
calculate if you're willing to do a little bit of algebra (which i always am). electrical power is the product of the current
(that's the flow rate of electric charge) and the voltage (that's the difference in
electric potential). for a simple conductor, we can use ohm's
law to show that the drop in voltage from one end of a wire to the other is equal to
the current times the resistance of the wire measured in ohms. substituting this relationship in, we find
that the power loss is equal to the product of current squared and resistance. so if we want to reduce the losses in a power
line, we have two variables to play with. we can reduce the resistance of the conductor
by increasing its size or using a more conductive material, but look what matters even more:
the i-squared term. reducing the current by half will cut the
lost power to one-fourth and so on. going back to ohm's law, we can see that
the only way to reduce the current and still get the same amount of power is to increase
the voltage. so, that's just what we do. transformers at power plants boost the voltage
up to 100,000 volts and sometimes much higher before sending electricity on its way over
transmission lines. this lowers the current in the lines, reducing
the wasted energy and making sure that as much power as possible makes it to customers
at the other end. this simple demonstration illustrates the
concept. if i try to power a hair dryer using these
thin wires, it is not going to work. the current required to power the dryer is
just too high. it creates so much heat that the wires completely
melt. that heat represents wasted energy. but, if i first boost the voltage up using
this transformer and step it back down on the other side of the thin conductors, they
have no problem carrying the power required to run the dryer. we've essentially swapped high current for high voltage,
making the conductors more efficient at carrying power. what we've also done is make things much
more dangerous. you can think of voltage as electricity's
desire to flow. high voltages mean the power really wants
to move and will even find a way to flow through materials we normally consider non-conductive,
like the air. the engineers designing high voltage transmission
lines have to make sure that these lines are safe from arcing and other dangers that come
with high voltage. most long distance power lines don't use
insulation around the conductors themselves. insulating in this way would have to be so
thick that it wouldn't be cost effective. instead, most of the insulation comes from
air gaps, or simply spacing everything far enough apart. transmission towers and pylons are really
tall to prevent anyone or any vehicle on the ground from inadvertently getting close enough
to conductors to create an arc. bulk electricity is transmitted in three phases,
which is why you'll see most transmission conductors in groups of three. each phase is spaced far enough from the other
two to avoid arcing between the phases. the conductors are connected to each tower
through long insulators to keep enough distance between energized lines and grounded pylons. these insulators are normally made from ceramic
discs so that if they get wet, electricity leakage has to take a much longer path to
ground. these discs are somewhat standardized, so
this is an easy way to get a rough guess of a transmission line's voltage. just multiply the number of discs by 15. for example, this line near my house has 9
discs on each insulator, and i know it's 138 kilovolt line. you'll also often see smaller conductors
running along the top of transmission lines. these static or shield wires aren't carrying
any current. they're there to protect the main conductors
against lightning strikes. high voltage isn't the only design challenge
associated with electric transmission lines. just selection of the conductors alone is
a careful balancing act of strength, resistance, and other factors. transmission lines are so long that even a
tiny change in the conductor size or material can have a major impact on the overall cost. conductors are rated by how much current they
can pass for a given rise in temperature. these lines can get very hot and sag during
peak electricity demands, which can cause problems if tree branches are too close. wind can also affect the conductors, causing
oscillations that lead to damage or failure of the material. you'll often see these small devices called
stockbridge dampers to absorb some of the wind energy. high voltage transmission lines also generate
magnetic fields that can induce currents in parallel conductors like fences and interfere
with magnetic devices, so the height of the towers is sometimes set to minimize emf at
the edge of the right-of-way. in certain cases, engineers even need to consider
the audible noise of the transmission lines to avoid disturbing nearby residents. even with all those considerations, the classic
model of the power grid with centralized generation away from populated areas is changing. the cost of solar panels continues to drop
making it easier and easier to produce some or all of the electricity you use at your
own house or business and even export excess energy back into the grid. this type of a local generation happens on
the distribution side of the grid, often completely skipping large transmission lines. on the other side of that coin, the energy
marketplace is changing as well, and grid operators are buying and selling electricity
across great distances. electrical transmission lines may seem simple
- the equivalent of an extension cord stretched across the sky. but, i hope this video helped show the fascinating
complexity that comes with even this seemingly innocuous part of our electrical grid. this is a segue between electrical infrastructure
and my favorite meal delivery kit, hellofresh. and this is my wife and i trying to film ourselves
making dinner. spending time in the kitchen is one of our
favorite things to do together, and hellofresh makes it super fun to cook and eat dinner
together without the chore of planning meals and shopping for groceries. the recipes are so delicious and always include
seasonal ingredients that are different from the stuff we normally make. hellofresh comes right to your doorstep with
fresh, pre-measured ingredients and easy-to-follow recipe cards, and it's flexible so you can
add extra meals, side items, or desserts to your order, and right now the price starts
at $5.66 per serving, which is pretty reasonable for a date night. and you know what's even more reasonable? the 8 free meals that hellofresh is giving
to fans of the channel who visit hellofresh.com and enter practical80 at checkout. that's $80 off your first month of hellofresh. just click the link in the description use
code practical80 at checkout. thank you for watching, and let me know what
you think!