- we bought half a row of tickets right behind the field
goal at the super bowl. so every time a team kicks
a field goal on our side, we'll be able to promote pewdiepie in front of 100 million people. - we did it! we did it! - i can't believe we did it. - don't understand? just keep watching. we might have just snuck
into a football field, but that's besides the point. we are going to advertise
pewdiepie at the super bowl. as you can see, the squad's right there, and the super bowl doesn't
allow you to bring in banners into the stadium so we made
blankets that are banners. but we're gonna be able to get
the blankets through security because they're blankets. sub2 and then a giant
picture of pewdiepie. it's supposed to come in two
days before the super bowl, so hopefully it does or we're screwed. chris, if we actually get
that in the super bowl. - it's gonna happen! - it's 5:00 a.m.. three
days before the super bowl. we're gonna drive there and prepare. - too loud. - we have 498 miles till we're in atlanta. - this is first stop. - it's cold. - two pounds? i think so. - one, two, three. - dude, what's up? - we are here in south carolina. we have a subscribe to pewdiepie sticker. behind the sticker is $20. someone go get it. we're gonna do that on every state sign. - so three. oh, crap. oh, we're in georgia. - now the georgia people know
to subscribe to pewdiepie. eat up, man. we are almost off 15
mil, guys, you eat good. - everybody gets that bread. - you may or may not know this, but elon musk tweeted "host
meme review question mark." and then i replied, "i triple dog dare you to host me review." and then elon musk himself
replied to me and said, "$5." and then i replied to him and i said, "i'll give you $5 and i'll buy a tesla." you know, if he hosts meme review. he then replied to me and said, "you drive a hard bargain, but okay." so we're gonna go to the
tesla dealership real quick and look at what tesla we're gonna buy if he does actually go
through and host meme review. this first one right here, tareq, i'm not really feelin' it. so this one is the s. again, it's nice, but i'm
not really feelin' it. this one, though. i like. alright. it's settled. elon, host meme review. i will buy this the second
the video goes public. would our trip have been better if we were takin' this car
instead of the minivan? - yeah, definitely. 100%. - elon, host meme review. i'll buy it. that was great. thank you, elon. thank you. pewdiepie is less than 100,000 subscribers from getting passed. the super bowl is tomorrow,
but we're desperate because he might not even
survive until the super bowl. so we're gonna do the unthinkable. we're gonna go to the zoo and try to get animals to
subscribe to pewdiepie. i don't know. what else is there to do? i'm desperate. what is this? everyone knows gloria bolga is the only news source in america. fake news. subscribe to pewdiepie. subscribe.
- subscribe to pewdiepie. - subscribe. you are entering the home of hondo. hondo? is that honda? - it's a african elephant. - it's not hondo. hondo? we wanna tell you about pewdiepie. hondo is clearly a supporter of t-series. get away from us. there's three lions here, and i know exactly what
they're dreaming about. - feel the burn. - they're doin' a good job. they're dreamin' about pewdiepie. - do they have any animals
here? i haven't seen one - braa. - rawr. - braa. - do i look like a lion, jake? - yeah.
- you look terrifying. - do i look like a cub? i miss harambe. - he died young. stand up if you'll subscribe to pewdiepie. don't move if you'll subscribe. - here.
- alright, we got it. that's two subscribers.
that's good for me. we're gonna speak their language and tell 'em to sub to pewdiepie. - that guy does not
look entertained at all. - they said yes, they'll sub. your tiger, it's pretty. - yeah, and there's definitely
not a sticker on my back. oh my goodness, there's like five of 'em. that's like three right there. - i think that's the last one. - are you guys putting 'em up there - no, we're not.
- while i'm peelin' 'em off? - all the monkeys at the top are subscribed to pewdiepie, and that one subscribed to t-series. - boo. boo.
- don't be like that monkey. - people that don't
subscribe to pewdiepie- - are unbearable. - can jake fit in the tunnel? - what exhibit is this? - i'm hit. - hi. - we're in the indian part of the zoo. keep your eyes peeled, boys. - no, we don't have any fruit loops. - we'll bring you some
fruit loops next week, okay? just subscribe to pewdiepie. - alright, cool.
- okay, thanks man. - a human leg bone- - i don't wanna tell him
to subscribe. he scares me. - kawalski, analysis. - oi, what's in your mouth? - right leg.
- how do you speak owl? i forgot.
- who. who. - who.
- that's a owl. yo, look at the way this- - who should you subscribe to? - this is the sumatran orangutan, he has already subscribed. i saw him over in the monkey habitat. i don't know what i'm doin'. alright. - and now that we've
gotten all the animals to subscribe to pewdiepie, it's time we get all the fish
to subscribe to pewdiepie, because they could help us too. - yo, look up. made you look. - really? i thought you were talking
about the half a golf ball. - oh. - subscribe to... aquaman, tell 'em to subscribe. what did they say? - everyone said yes except him. - how many do you think are
subscribed to pewdiepie? - uh, none of 'em. - none of 'em?
- what? - i mean, i can't help
who they subscribe to. it's not my fault. - what about that guy? right there? - so that's a giant grouper, he probably definitely subscribed. - alright.
- people can scan that and it takes 'em to pewdiepie's channel.
- alright. i got you. subscribe to pewdiepie. - come 'ere. both of y'all. go on youtube, subscribe
to pewdiepie, okay? - his name is charlie- - alright. he said alright. - my knees. - alright, animals and fish didn't work, so we're gonna go back to people. - somebody. wave back. give this to someone so they
can subscribe to pewdiepie. subscribe to pewdiepie.
it's a youtube channel. - oh. okay.
- okay. - you guys have to subscribe to pewdiepie. - alright. - aw, man, no one wants arrested. - have you guys subscribed to pewdiepie? - do you guys wanna subscribe?
subscribe, subscribe. - our car, no. caught back up with the car. the car was barely moving, jumped out, promoted pewdiepie, got back in. why don't you guys do that? alright. we've completed today's mission. - woo.
- we're ready for the big game tomorrow. - can i have my mr.pibb? - alright, it's the day of the super bowl and these are our blankets. and if for some reason they
confiscate the blankets, we're wearing sub to pewdiepie shirts. backup plans on backup plans. we will advertise pewdiepie
to 100 million people today. mark my words. alright guys, we just
parked at the super bowl. we got our tickets. we're gonna walk through
the tailgate party. hopefully we don't get hit by a car. - i'm in line for the loud mouth machine. it's a machine that can
monitor how loud you can yell. so i'm gonna see how loud i can
yell subscribe to pewdiepie. alright guys, so i'm in here. subscribe to pewdiepie! - subscribe to pewdiepie.
- subscribe to pewdiepie. let's go. - sub to pewdiepie! - let's go. i'm fired up, are you fired- - alright guys, we're at the super bowl and we have the blankets. hopefully they don't get confiscated. this is the do or die moment, but if we can't get these in we're gonna go in with our shirts which are hidden behind the hoodies. feelin' pretty good, i've seen lots of people get in with flags and other big items, so i think we're gonna
be able to get 'em in. - bring the blankets in the stadium? - i thought nfl's got some rule
where blankets were allowed. - can't bring banners or anything that's gonna obstruct the view
of anybody in the stadium, which would be a blanket. right, that's nice, but
that's not super bowl policy. - let's just leave 'em. it's fine. - where's the trash can to ditch 'em at? - alright, they are not allowed. - alright, sir. - you're welcome to record
it, i just wanna make sure- - we have you tell us the rules, that's why we just- - you're allowed to bring 'em in, we just need to open 'em
and read what they say. - i say we just do the shirts. - yeah. let's do the shirts. - not gonna lie, guys. i'm really disappointed
they took the blankets. but it's okay because we still have shirts that say sub to pewdiepie. but whatever, we're
still gonna make it work. we're gonna line up and our shirts are gonna
stay subscribe to pewdiepie. when they kick and field goal
it's still gonna be there. we still have a chance
to save pewdiepie, guys. i'm sorry. i really
don't wanna let you down. - we're section 119. this way. - beat la! beat la! - pewdiepie. pewdiepie. - kiddin' me. - yo! guys, this stadium is ginormous. so that is the field goal right
there, and this is our row. garrett, what does your shirt say? - sub. - your says 2, mine says pew, die, pie. alright guys, we took our hoodies off. we're all decked out with
the sub to pewdiepie shirts. we're gonna see what they look
like, tareq went down there. so that was our practice run. it looks pretty good. i think we're ready. hopefully they don't kick
us out for these shirts. - yeah, we're definitely
gonna be seen on tv. - dude, i'm excited. - that's a booty ho'. - it's pewdiepie! - they might actually
kick an extra point soon. - woo. - and the game literally
just started 30 seconds ago. they're almost in field goal range. dude-
- we got this. - guys, they're about
to kick a field goal. we might be seen, right guys? - we did it! we did it! - i can't believe we did it. league espn literally just
tweeted, and look, we're in it. - thank you for missin' the
field goal, whoever missed it. - alright guys, it's currently half time. we've already been on tv
a few different times. we're gonna grab some food,
use the bathroom, recharge. also, verge just wrote an article on us. thanks, verge. not gonna lie, that was
pretty freakin' awesome. - they did it.
- they put spongebob in it. - there was spongebob, lots of fire, fireworks.
- the memes. - it was pretty good.
- it was insane. - super bowl halftime review. 9 outta 10. - not enough spongebob. oh, the rams suck. they suck really bad. woo. we're in field goal range. - as long as they don't
turn it over, we're good. t-series obviously rigged it. - the rams are throwing so t-series wins. - with the super bowl- - we made it on again! - again!
- yeah, we made it! - we won the super bowl. - alright guys, we had
our blankets confiscated but we still went in and we executed. - yeah. - made it on tv multiple times. it's a w. - yeah, baby.
- win. - pewdiepie versus
t-series, pewdiepie wins. - we're gonna add these
sub to pewdiepie hoodies to shopmrbeast.com. if you wanna promote pewdiepie
on your own, just go buy it. it's on our website.
linked in description. go promote pewdiepie. wear it with pride. we literally just made
them for the super bowl, but i just realized you guys might wanna
promote pewdiepie as well. so they're up there, go buy 'em. and i'll use most the money we make off of these sub to pewdiepie shirts to buy more ads for pewdiepie, maybe even run a tp campaign. i'll make sure to use it for him.