on september 13, 2018, a pipeline crew in the 
merrimack valley in massachusetts was hard at   work replacing an aging cast iron natural gas 
line with a new polyethylene pipe. located   just north of boston, the original cast iron 
system was installed in the early 1900s and due   for replacement. to maintain service during the 
project, the crew installed a small bypass line   to deliver natural gas into the downstream 
pipe while it was cut and connected to the   new plastic main line. by 4:00 pm, the new 
polyethylene main had been connected and the   old cast iron pipe capped off. the last step of 
the job was to abandon the cast iron line. the   valves on each end of the bypass were closed, the 
bypass line was cut, and the old cast iron pipe   was completely isolated from the system. but it 
was immediately clear that something was wrong. within minutes of closing those valves, the 
pressure readings on the new natural gas line   spiked. one of the fittings on the new line blew 
off into a worker's hand. and as they were trying   to plug the leak, the crew heard emergency 
sirens in the distance. they looked up and   saw plumes of smoke rising above the horizon. 
by the end of the day, over a hundred structures   would be damaged by fire and explosions, 
several homes would be completely destroyed,   22 people (including three firefighters) would 
be injured, and one person would be dead in one   of the worst natural gas disasters in american 
history. the ntsb did a detailed investigation   of the event that lasted about a year. so 
let's talk about what actually happened,   and the ways this disaster changed pipeline 
engineering so that hopefully something like   it never happens again. i'm grady, and this 
is practical engineering. in today's episode,   we're talking about the 2018 merrimack 
valley natural gas explosions. like many parts of the world, natural gas 
is an important source of energy in homes   and businesses in the united states. it's a 
fossil fuel composed mostly of methane gas   extracted from geologic formations using drilled 
wells. the us has an enormous system of natural   gas pipelines that essentially interconnect 
the entire lower 48 states. very generally,   gathering lines connect lots of individual 
wells to processing plants, transmission lines   connect those plants to cities, and then the pipes 
spread back out again for distribution. compressor   stations and regulators control the pressure of 
the gas as needed throughout the system. most   cities in the us have distribution systems that 
can deliver natural gas directly to individual   customers for heating, cooking, hot water, 
laundry, and more. it's an energy system that   is in many ways very similar to the power grid, 
but in many ways quite different, as we'll see. just like a grid uses different voltages to 
balance the efficiency of transport with the   complexity of the equipment, a natural gas network 
uses different pressures. in transmission lines,   compressor stations boost the pressure 
to maximize flow within the pipes. that's   appropriate for individual pipelines where 
it's worth the costs for higher pressure   ratings and more frequent inspections, 
but it's a bad idea for the walls of   homes and businesses to contain pipes 
full of high-pressure explosive gas.   so, where safety is critical, the 
pressure is lowered using regulators. just a quick note on units before we get too 
far. there are quite a few ways we talk about   system pressures in natural gas lines. 
low pressure systems often use inches or   millimeters of water column as a measure of 
pressure. for example, a typical residential   natural gas pressure is around 12 inches (or 300 
millimeters) of water, basically the pressure at   which you would have to blow into a vertical 
tube to get water to raise that distance:   about like that, roughly half a psi or 30 
millibar. you also sometimes see pressure   units with a "g" at the end, like 
"psig." that "g" stands for gauge,   and it just means that the measurement excludes 
atmospheric pressure. most pressure readings you   encounter in life are "gauge" values that ignore 
the pressure from earth's atmosphere, but natural   gas engineers prefer to be specific, since it can 
make a big difference in low pressure systems. the natural gas main line in the merrimack valley 
being replaced had a nominal pressure of 75 psi   or about 5 bar, although that pressure could 
vary depending on flows in the system. just   for comparison, that's 173 feet or more than 50 
meters of water column. but, the distribution   system, the network of underground pipes 
feeding individual homes and businesses,   needed a consistent half a psi or 30 millibar, no 
matter how many people were using the system. the   device that made this possible was a regulator. 
there are lots of different types of regulators   used in natural gas systems, but the ones in 
the merrimack valley use pilot-operated devices,   which are pretty ingenious. it's basically 
a thermostat, but for pressure instead of   temperature. the pilot is a small pressure 
regulating valve that supports the opening or   closing of the larger primary valve. if the pilot 
senses an increase or decrease in pressure from   the set point, it changes the pressure in the main 
valve diaphragm, causing it to open or close. this   all works without any source of outside power 
just using the pressure of the main gas line. columbia gas's winthrop station was just a short 
distance south of where the tie-in work was being   done on the day of the event. inside, a pair 
of regulators in series was used to control   the pressure in the distribution system. one of 
these regulators, known as the worker, was the   primary regulator that maintained gas pressure. a 
second device, called the monitor, added a layer   of redundancy to the system. the monitor regulator 
was normally open with a setpoint a little higher   than the worker so it could kick in if the 
worker ever failed, and, at least in theory,   make sure that the low-pressure system never 
got above its maximum operating level of about   14 inches of water column or 35 millibar. but, in 
this worker/monitor configuration, the pilots on   the two regulators can't use the downstream 
pressure right at the main valve. for one,   the reading at the worker would be affected by any 
changes in the downstream monitor. and for two,   measuring pressure right at the valve can be 
inaccurate because of flow turbulence generated by   the valve itself. it would be kind of like putting 
your thermostat right in front of a register; it   wouldn't be getting an accurate reading. so, the 
pilots were connected to sensing lines that could   monitor the pressure in the distribution system a 
little ways downstream of the regulator station. the worker and monitor regulators were both 
functioning as designed on september 13, and yet,   they allowed high pressure gas to flood the 
system, leading to a catastrophe. how could that   happen? the ntsb's report is pretty clear. tying 
a natural gas line while it's still in service,   called a hot tie-in, is a pretty tricky job that 
requires strict procedures. here are the basic   steps: first a bypass line was installed across 
the upstream and downstream parts of the main   line. then balloons were inserted into the main 
to block gas from flowing into the section to be   cut. once the gas was purged from the central 
section, it was cut out and removed while the   bypass line kept gas flowing from upstream to 
downstream. the line to be abandoned got a cap,   and the new plastic tie in was attached to the 
downstream main. once the tie-in was complete,   the crew switched the upstream gas service from 
the old cast iron line over to the new plastic   line and deflated the last balloon so that gas 
could flow. the upstream cast iron line was   still pressurized, since it was still connected 
to the in-service line through the bypass. but,   as soon as the crew closed the valves on 
the bypass, the old cast iron line was   fully isolated, and the pressure inside 
the line started to drop, as planned. what that crew didn't know is that when that 
plastic main line was installed 2 years back,   a critical error had been made. the main discharge 
line at the regulator station had been attached to   the new polyethylene pipe, but the sensing 
lines had been left on the old cast iron   main. it hadn't been an issue for the previous 2 
years, since both lines were being used together,   but this tie-in job was the first of the 
entire project that would abandon part of   the original piping. within minutes 
of isolating the old cast iron pipe,   its pressure began to drop. to a regulator, 
there's no difference between a pressure drop   from high demands on the gas system and 
a pressure drop from an abandoned line,   and they respond the same way in both cases: open 
the valves. in a normal situation, the increased   gas flow would result in higher pressure in the 
sensing lines, creating a feedback loop. but this   was not a normal situation. it's the equivalent 
of putting your thermostat in the freezer. even   as pressure in the distribution system rose, 
the pressure in the sensing lines continued to   drop with the abandoned line. the regulators, not 
knowing any better, kept opening wider and wider,   eventually flooding the distribution system with 
gas at pressures well above its maximum rating. by the time things went sideways, the 
crew at the tie-in had taken most of   their equipment out of the excavation. but 
as one worker was removing the last valve,   it blew off into his hand as 
gas erupted from the hole.   the crew heard firefighters racing throughout the 
neighborhood and saw the smoke from fires across   the horizon. the overpressure event had started a 
chain of explosions, mostly from home appliances   that weren't designed for such enormous pressures. 
the emergency response to the fires and explosions   strained the resources of local officials. 
within minutes, the fire departments of lawrence,   andover, and north andover had deployed well 
over 200 firefighters to the scenes of multiple   explosions and fires, and help from
neighboring districts in massachusetts,   new hampshire, and maine would quickly follow. 
the massachusetts emergency management agency   activated the statewide fire mobilization 
plan, which brought in over a dozen task   forces in the state,'0 fire departments, and 
140 law enforcement agencies. the electricity   was shut off to the area to limit sources 
of ignition to help prevent further fires,   and of course, natural gas service was 
shut off to just under 11,000 customers. by the end of the day, one person 
was dead, 22 were injured, and over   50,000 people were evacuated from the 
area. and while they were allowed back   into their homes after three days, many 
were uninhabitable. even those lucky   enough to escape immediate fire damage 
were faced with a lack of gas service   as miles of pipelines and appliances had to be 
replaced. that process ended up taking months,   leaving residents without stoves, hot water, and 
heaters in the chilly late fall in new england. ntsb had several recommendations stem from their 
investigation. at the time of the disaster,   gas companies were exempt from state rules that 
required the stamp of a licensed professional   engineer on project designs. less than three 
months after ntsb recommended the exemption   be lifted, a bill was passed requiring a pe 
stamp on all designs for natural gas systems,   providing the public with better assurance 
that competent and qualified engineers would   be taking responsibility for these inherently 
dangerous projects. and actually, ntsb issued   the same recommendation and sent letters to the 
governors of 31 states with pe license exemptions,   but most of those states still don't require a 
pe stamp on natural gas projects today. there   were recommendations about emergency 
response as well, since this event   put the area's firefighters through a stress 
test beyond what they had ever experienced. ntsb also addressed the lack of robustness of low 
pressure gas systems where the only protection   against overpressurization is sensing lines on 
regulators. it's easy to see in this disaster   how a single action of isolating a gas line 
could get past the redundancy of having two   regulators in series and quickly lead to an 
overpressure event. this situation of having   multiple system components fail in the same way 
at the same time is called a common mode failure,   and you obviously never want that to happen 
on critical and dangerous infrastructure like   natural gas lines. interestingly 
and somewhat counterintuitively,   one solution to this problem is to convert 
the low-pressure distribution system to one   that uses high pressure. because, in this kind of 
system, every customer has their own regulator,   essentially eliminating the chance of a common 
mode failure and widespread overpressure event. most importantly, the ntsb did not mince 
words on who they found at fault for the   disaster. they were clear that the training 
and qualification of the construction crew,   or the condition of the equipment at the winthrop 
avenue regulator station were not factors in the   event. rather, they found that the probable 
cause was columbia gas of massachusetts' weak   engineering management that did not adequately 
plan, review, sequence, and oversee the project. to put it simply, they just forgot to include 
moving the sensing lines when they were designing   the pipeline replacement project, and the 
error wasn't caught during quality control or   constructability reviews. nisource, the parent 
company of columbia gas (of massachusetts),   estimated claims related to the disaster 
exceeded $1 billion, an incredible cost for   weak engineering management. ultimately, columbia 
gas pleaded guilty to violating federal pipeline   safety laws and sold their distribution operations 
in the state to another utility. they also did a   complete overhaul of their engineering 
program and quality control methods. all those customers hooked up to natural 
gas lines didn't have a say in how their   gas company was managed; they didn't have a 
choice but to trust that those lines were safe;   and they probably didn't even understand the 
possibility that those lines could overpressurize   and create a dangerous and deadly condition in 
the place where they should have felt most safe:   their own homes. the event underscored the crucial 
responsibility of engineers and (more importantly)   the catastrophic results when engineering systems 
lack rigorous standards for public safety. just like natural gas projects require 
strict oversight to protect the public,   the same is true for aviation. one example is 
the tenerife airport disaster. why would a fully   loaded 747 venture onto the runway of a small 
airport in the canary islands without permission,   leading to the deadliest crash in aviation 
history? my fellow content creator, neo,   recently released a documentary about the disaster 
with incredible 3d animations to tell the story.   maybe you've noticed what i have over the past few 
years, which is that all my favorite tv networks   are just running reality shows, and the best 
video content that i actually enjoy watching   is being made my independent creators. i won't 
say it about myself, but i will say it about   brian from real engineering, sam from wendover 
and half as interesting, reallifelore, and johnny   harris. they're all making videos that are more 
fascinating and thought-provoking than any of   the old tv shows i miss. neos video (along with a 
ton more excellent content) is only available on   nebula, the streaming platform built by and for 
independent educations creators, including me. nebula is the answer to the question of what could 
happen if the best channels on youtube didn't   have to cater to an algorithm. what if viewers 
supported creators directly instead of supporting   their advertisers? and it just keeps getting 
better and better: totally ad-free videos from   excellent educational channels, original series 
and specials that can't be found anywhere else,   and even classes from your favorite creators 
like devin from legal eagle and thomas frank.   and right now, you can pay just $30 for an 
entire year's access if you use my link in the   description below. that's less than $3 a month. 
my videos go live on nebula the day before they   come out on youtube. if watching videos like 
this one is what you do for fun or to relax,   you should have the best viewing experience on 
the internet, especially when it's practically   free like it is right now at the link below. thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think!