- mm. can you smell that brother? yeah, that's right. we've got the razer
boomslang wire gaming mouse. top of the line, cream of the crop. oh yeah. or at least it was the top
of the line back in 1999. but gaming mice have changed
a lot over the last couple of decades. so, i think the question
on everyone's mind is, can this candy ass rgb lightweight take on the
intercontinental champion of gaming mice? now let me step into this sponsor segue - ridge wallet ridge wallet has redefined the traditional with its compact frame and
r f i d blocking plates. keep your wallet bulge down and use our offer code linus
to save 10% and get free worldwide shipping - representing modern gaming mice. we've got my daily driver,
the g pro wireless. it features 25,000 dpi sensitivity,
one millisecond pulling and it weighs in it just 80 grams. let's see how i do in aim labs. wait, there are people who
do 200 of these in a minute. - [nick] oh yeah. - this sensitivity is
definitely not right for me. it's a little bit high and i'm just i'm, i'm ending up just past everything and i'm trying to compensate
and then i'm ending up not going far enough. oh my gosh! okay. well, score of 82. accuracy 63%. not bad, not bad. woo! is the logitech gaming
software installed on here? - [nick] no. oh, i might be 500 and that
doesn't feel quite right. i don't know. maybe i'm just making all
this up and i just suck. if i don't break a hundred,
i will be tres embarrassed 96. - [nick] aw, not nice. - 71% accuracy though. all right, fine. that's that's as good a
gamer as i'm ever gonna be. i'm number 52,000 in the world. - [nick] hell yeah. - now the question is how does
something from 1999 stack up? our razer boomslang is still packed away in its original tin, and we got our hands on
the collector's edition. so this is one of just 5,000 units. and this is pretty special for me because back when this
was the king, i don't think my whole gaming rig
was worth a hundred dollars and gamer specific hardware
was a relatively new concept. and so was razer's edgy green marketing. diabolical synergy (murmurs) scroll wheel 45 dpr more
than twice as precise as a standard mouse.
ambidextrous ergo design levels the playing field for right
and left handed gamers. patented dust barrier, seven foot cord. wow. that's a long chord. bag lunch, unprecedented
strikes be venomous accuracy a revolutionary step in the
evolution of game controllers. that's right. evolution, revolution. it's both. and you know what? compared to its competitors, the boomslang had a lot more going for it than just marketing. it's rated a whopping 2000 dpi which was massive back then especially for a ball mouse. - [nick] oh noooo - right? oh, i love this gray cable. can i just say gray? we want you back. that is so classy. even now it feels like alien technology. we got number 1,671, and
this is interesting powered by karna precision patent
pending karna actually ceased operations due to
financial issues in 2000. but in 2005, razer was revived
by former karna employees robert krakoff and min-liang tan. that's a familiar name. little fun fact for you. want another one? the backpack and screwdriver
are finally almost ready at lttstore.com get signed up and be notified when they go live. so for those of you who don't know
the way that this sensor works is this little ball down
here actually rolls around as you move the mouse,
transferring that movement to inside rollers here at the back of the mouse and here on its left. as these well also roll they break a thin light beam. so the more the beam
breaks, the more the mouse has been moved. some of you might actually
remember needing to clean your balls about
once a month growing up. (beep) but i bet you forgot that
you also had to clean out your rollers because if
either of them got caked up with dust or in my household
with so many ladies living there, hair you'd get
terrible tracking resulting in a very frustrating gaming experience. my mom had hair down to
probably the small of her back when i was growing up. so there would be hairs
wrapped around these rollers that were like... - [nick] ewww! - i pulled them out
almost like this. anyway. sorry. that story aside. what else have we got in here? nestled in the mouse foam is a usb to ps 2 adapter, probably
pretty handy 23 years ago. and then below the foam. whew, we've got a first edition
certificate of ownership. we got our quick setup
guide. install driver, shut down, plugin and reboot. that's right friends. it was the year 2000 after all. we've got uh, the latest and greatest on technique and technicalia. this is not your mother's mouse. we know you're chomping at
the bit to put this baby through the paces. you loaded the drivers,
tweaked your system settings, plugged in your new razer. oh my goodness. this is amazing. to get the ultimate
experience and movement and control, we highly recommend the 3m precision mousing surface 3m used to make first party mouse pads? i did not know that. we've also got the master guide. "genre defining weapons
that make for penetrating explosive gameplay", - [david] excuse me? - penetrating explosive
gameplay. you heard me. - [nick] prepare to get penetrated david. - [david] explosively. - finally, our handy
dandy installation cd. this was pretty crucial back then when downloading software could
take ages and cost you money. not so much anymore though. get subscribed or you might miss our 100%
legal way to emulate games video. back to our mouse. the construction here is a mix of a black rubberized
material that actually for all its years still feels
really good and really grippy. and this semi-transparent
green plastic that hasn't aged quite as well in
terms of its aesthetics. you can see some of the internals though. and probably the coolest thing
about them is that it looks like you could probably
repair this mouse by hand. like the solder points are so big. it's got what appeared to be ptfe feet and on a modern mouse pad,
like our northern lights, ltt store, it slides around just fine. can you hear the, can you hear the wheel? - [david] yeah, that doesn't sound good. - that does not sound that great. our right click is a little
mushy, but still functional. and our left click sounds like it should. one of the most interesting thing about the primary buttons
is how long they are. this was actually an ergonomic feature because it allowed you to rest your hand and click away no matter
what your grip type was. oh wow. those are that's where
the side buttons are. huh. wow. that's a stiff scroll wheel. - [nick] yeah. - it feels like it's kind
of designed for ring finger right click and pinky and thumb. well, its ambidextrous right? so... interesting. i would say that when
it comes to ergonomics your mileage may, no,
will vary on this one. that's a very, it's a very claw grip. you kind of can't spoon it cuz it just it doesn't support you on the sides. and i guess the reason for the widths is it's not really designed for middle and index finger
that would put your wrist at like this unnatural angle. okay. i'm gonna try
and use it as intended. - [nick] okay. - we ready? - [nick] yeah. - did the computer just restart? - [nick] yeah. - did it just freaking crash my computer? wow. - [david] too much boom. - i mean, in fairness the instructions did say
install driver, shut down. plug in. reboot. rtfm fair enough. touche, razer. i can feel the aches in
here and here already. i haven't even done my
small flex aim test yet. whoa, whoa. wow. that wasn't good. oh my gosh. okay. i swear to you. i'm not hamming this up. this is really hard. i feel my whole i feel my whole forearm
like tensing up here. okay. now i'm feeling, i'm feeling it. i'm feeling it. watch me not actually be any worse. oh no, this is worse. - [nick] you're definitely getting worse. - i can't look at the score
right now cuz i'm aiming. okay. come on. oh, that's a lot worse. it didn't feel that much worse. like my intensity was high. oh wow. i did get more accurate over time. okay. one more time. one more time. that was warm up. i'm going for it. i'm beating the g pro wireless. there we go, there we go. getting my rhythm, getting my rhythm here. yeah. yeah. rhythm, rhythm. feel the rhythm. feel the rhyme. get on up. it's bobsled time. cool runnings... 61! 60% accuracy. yeah. it's still not, not as
good as the g pro wireless. the truth is that dragging
around a heavy mass and it has to be heavy because
otherwise it won't stay down on the mouse pad
just cannot provide the same experience as a proper
modern optical sensor. i mean, yeah. i no pro at the best of times but the ball causes a lot of issues. first of all, trying to
make small adjustments well you're running up
against the friction between the ball and the
little plastic retainer for it. and second of all, when
you try to do bigger flicks or sweeps, it's hard to
control the ball fully. so a quick flick shot could
overshoot significantly because that ball has momentum. it'll keep rolling for
up to half a second. as for the smaller issues, the
mouse is overall pretty heavy at 137 grams the shape
while being advertised as ergonomic and ambidextrous
kind of resembles a a ducks foot and me was
incredibly uncomfortable. like my arm is really uncomfortable after using it for just a few moments. but apparently after a week, you end up with stockholm syndrome. ploof who wrote this video claims that he kind of likes it now. - [nick] razer was onto something - what's cool is that
all five of the buttons, the two on the sides that
and the three on the top including clicking the scroll
wheel are programmable. that's right. i mean, no gaming mouse
would truly be a gaming mouse without software and programmable buttons. and guys, i gotta say
while the utility looks like it came straight outta 1999 it does have some pretty
interesting features. you can change input on the
x and y axis independently. you could alter your double click speed, your scroll wheel speed. you've got these cute little test areas (vocalizes explosion noises) - [nick] the links to work,
they still take you to razer. oh my god. it totally did. it takes me to their chinese
site now, which is interesting. and shockingly, this program
is still on razer's website with the last release
coming in april, 2011. we did manage to install it on windows 10 in spite of the warning about
it requiring windows xp. but our sensitivity
adjustments did not appear to actually do anything. so, i can't really say that it works. with that said, if you're
looking for the shape and feel of the boomslang you can still use it
on a modern gaming rig. i just wouldn't recommend it
because whether you like it or not, this is what peak
performance looks like now. and we're gonna have a handful of excellent modern gaming
mice at various price points in the video description
that are not this. if what you really care about
is the nostalgia though, there was actually a sort
of reissue or update back in 2007 with the boomslang
collector's edition. it had an'00 dpi 3g, infrared sensor and 1000 hertz pulling rate. unfortunately it was limited
to just 10,000 units. so we might have a hard time
getting your hands on one. we did find two on ebay but they ranged from 169 us dollars, nice, to 500 us dollars which is not nice by any measure. unlike this segue to our sponsor. - nexigo! love playing with your oculus quest
two, but hate dealing with keeping your headset
charged and stored nicely? nexigo's new s20 charging doc is for you. it's an all in one charging
and storage system that comes with a magnetic usb-c connector. that means all you have
to do is set your headset down and it charges automatically. it also comes with
rechargeable batteries and custom battery covers for wireless charging to keep
your controllers fully charged and ready to play. got the elite strap with battery? don't worry. it comes with an extra support brace and cable to keep that charged too. so take your vr set up
to the next level and get your nexigo s20 charging
doc using the link down below. - if you guys liked this
video, make sure to check out our review of the g502 hero from logitech in one
of our recent additions of why the flipping hell
is everyone buying this.