so this is a new recent maths result! we've got 
this here, a graph which is a network of points   and lines. so you could think of it like a 
network of friends; a network of computers;   london underground map - these are all the classic 
examples of networks, points and lines connecting   together. it's slightly unusual this graph; look, all 
the points that you normally get in a graph, i've put   them all in one line. and then you can see all 
the connections being made between those points.  and when you do that, you know, these connections 
these lines they cross each other, crisscrossing   is everywhere. i wonder if we can uncross these? 
uncross them without keeping those points in a   straight line. i don't know. this is a way you could 
uncross them; maybe if i took some of these lines,   maybe if i lift them up like that they don't 
cross anymore.
- (brady: oh that's cheating isn't it?)   and then maybe if i take this page here and lift 
this up so they don't cross anymore - and what   we've created is something called a book. 
- (book?) 
- what? do you want me to do it in a southern accent? - (no it's alright)
- book? i don't know how to do it in a southern accent. it's a book - i'll do it proper northern. it's a book 
graph. so what we've done it's created a graph   using four pages so that the lines now are 
uncrossed; and this is special because this   is the first one of its kind that shows 
that this type of graph needs four pages and it can't be done with fewer pages. i'll put 
my book away and tell you a little bit more about   book graphs. so that's the idea, so you're going 
to put the points on a line; we're going to   try and draw our graph but we're going to try 
and connect the points like their pages in a   book. let's start with a simple example, i'll just 
start with- i'll just do a square, four points. so   now let's turn that into a book and that means 
i'm going to put the points along the spine of   the book. and it's helpful to number these, let's do 
1, 2, 3, 4 yeah. now let's do 1, 2 3 and 4 all in a line where 1 connects to 
2; 2 connects to 3; 3 connects to 4; 4 connects to 1 so it goes back like that.
that would be a one page book because i've just   got this top half here that i'm using. so it's a 
one-page book, it does depend on the order of your   vertices here. so if i do a different order you 
get a different book. let's do 1, 3, 4, 2 then what do i need? 1 connects to 2 like 
that; 2 connects to 3; 3 connects to   4; 4 connects to 1. so i've created a two 
page book. let's see if we can find something that   needs three pages - we could do something like a 
complete graph. a complete graph is when you have   the points and the lines and everything's 
connected to everything else. so here is a   classic with five points, and i connect everything 
to everything else. so it looks like this. now let's   say i'm going to try and minimise these crossings; 
because that's kind of what i'm trying to do with   this book as well. if you imagine these aren't like 
elastic or string i could pull two of these lines   out so i could do something that looks like this 
and it will only have one crossing. now if i want   to draw that as a book this is how you would do it. 
this pentagon is a loop so if i just name them   that's 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. i'm going to 
draw out my points: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. now   i'm going to do the loop first: so 1 connects to 
2, connects to 3, connects to 4, connects to   5, 5 connects to 1. and then anything inside 
the loop i'll put on page 1. 2 connects to 4, 2 connects to 5 - and you can see i'm going to 
have that crossing there. maybe i'll save that as   the last thing i do. so i've got 2 connects to 
4, 2 connects to 5 like that and anything   like outside the loop i'll do on page 2. so what have
i got? 1 connects to 3 and 1 connects   to 4. and then yes there was one line that i 
missed which was 3 connects to 5. because   i know that's going to cross and so i've got two 
pages here looking lovely but yeah i'm gonna have   to use three pages. i'll do it in a different colour,
3 connects to 5. so that would be my third   page. so this graph here needs three pages. if these 
didn't cross i would have been able to do that in   two pages. in fact you can make a book of any size; 
if you've got a complete graph with n points   the book has n divided by 2 pages - or it's that 
number rounded up. so if i wanted to make a book   with 100 pages you just do the complete graph 
with 200 points. so you can make a book of   any size you want, there's nothing interesting 
about that right so who cares. like what might be   more interesting though is what about graphs 
that can be untangled, right? let's just look at   a specific kind of graph that's called a planar 
graph when you can untangle it. here we go. so if   you've got a planar graph, if you can draw a 
loop you can do it in two pages. i can do my   five points again but maybe with less lines 
so they don't cross over this time? so if i've got   a planar graph which means they don't cross, and 
i've got a loop, then i can make it two pages. same   as before: there's my loop, anything inside is page 
1; anything outside is page 2. what about if we   don't have a loop? right, now there's a couple of 
ways you can get around this. if you don't have a   loop you could do- i'm going to call it a phantom 
loop. so it could be like this: there's no loops   here, i'll call it 1, 2, 3 and 4. but i 
can make a phantom loop if i want to: so i can go   1 connects to 2, 2 connects to 3 and i'm 
gonna put an imaginary 3 connects to 4 and   4 connects to 1. then using that i can do 
the same idea. here's the book, and i can go 1   connects to 2, 2 connects to 3; phantom 
3 connects to 4, a phantom 4 connects to   1 if i wanted to. and then what's inside that 
loop? 2 connects the 4, so i will draw that   on page 1. i would actually get a one page book 
here. so you can turn things that don't have loops   into something that has loops. so really now we're 
interested in graphs that don't have crossings, that don't have loops, and you can't even do 
phantom loops. so there are graphs like that   as well. i'll show you an example of what something 
like that would look like: (there it is)
- so we've got  a graph here: it's called the goldner-harary graph 
and you can see it's got no crossings, and it has   as many edges as you can put in it as well - at 
least without creating any extra new crossings.   so we can't even put any phantom lines in this. 
and this, if we turned that into our book, is going   to be a three page book. because we can't quite 
use the trick i used before. so the three-page   book would look like this: so there we go we've got 
our points in a line. we've tried our best, you know   we've connected it as a two-page book and then 
we will have one extra line there that they've   put in and that will have to go on the third 
page. so this is an example of a planar graph  - which is a graph that has no crossings in it - that 
needs three pages. are there any graphs that need   four pages? and that was the question. we knew that 
there were no planar graphs that needed five pages;  so we knew the answer was going to be 3 as 
a maximum or 4 as a maximum. and that was the   conjecture. and that was a conjecture for 30 
years until 2020. so only recently we   got our graph; and that's the graph i showed you at 
the beginning so let's just take another look   at it. it's got 275 points, it's got 819 edges. you 
connect it up, it needs four pages and every order   as well need four pages - it can't be done better. 
so this was- for the first time a planar graph   that needed four pages as a book; if you want to 
see the original planar graph, so that it's just   points without any crossings in it. you'll 
like this brady.
- (yeah i'm dying to see that) you'd love this. it's this beautiful heart-shaped 
graph. it's got- i'll give you options: it's   got 275 vertices, 819 edges, and it was found 
by you know a combination of computer   search - obviously mathematical methods as well - and 
they also used just purely mathematical methods   to find a whole family of graphs like this
that can only be done in four pages and not better.
- (awesome) this episode was sponsored by 
jane street. they're a research driven trading   firm with offices all around the world - here are 
some of their locations - and they're looking for   smart, curious, talented people to join them. could 
you be one of them? check out janestreet.com and   click here where it says join jane street. it's 
not just jobs on offer, although there's plenty of   them; they also run various programs, internships,
all sorts of stuff that might be right up your   alley. i visited their offices and it's really 
impressive, certainly beyond any place i've ever   worked. there's more on the website, check them 
out, and there's a link in the video description. ...my guess would have been, you know, what 
is the largest area if you had all these you   know diagonals fitting inside a 1x1
box and i would have guessed regular hexagon.  but it's not. so it's this thing,
so this is not a regular hexagon...