-[austin] ken bolido. - yeah. - [commentator] happy birthday my friend. - can i open my eyes? - [commentator] you can open your eyes. (squeaking) (laughing) - [ken] here, i'll do you a solid. - [ken] wait dude. oh no. great, great, great. i already hate it. oh, it's balloons! oh, it's balloons! oh, i thought it was something else. - [man throwing box] i'm
not used to throwing items. this is very strange. i'm gonna throw them from over here. - what is this? dema! wait... more? wait stop burning all your- wait are you throwing literally
everything to me right now? wait, what? wait, wait, wait, wait,
hold on one at a time, dude. have you ever seen mystery tech before? let's see. what do we got here? these look like gloves, but i'm going to just guess
that they are not ordinary gloves. (upbeat background music) okay. what the... (laugh) these are shiny! wait, wait, knowing, knowing you guys, cause we did this once before. do they light up? are they supposed to light up? - [man behind camera] they are. - you would think that it would be intuitive enough to have a power button somewhere apparently obvious. that. the button is where
your inner ankle would be. inner ankle is it? your- - [man behind camera] yeah. - yeah. oh it turned on! it's red. wait, can i change the color? red, red. if you just have red and a flashing red. that's uh, that's handy.
so continuing the trend. we have these shining glasses. - [man behind camera] yeah. it's looking awfully
dangerous right there. - these look very awful. i'm in the future ladies and gentlemen. wow. why is the nose bridge
completely part plastic? [music] around the world [music] [music] around the world [music] [music] around the world [music] [music] around the world [music] - [man behind camera] yeah
i'm not really good at being on page... or tone or key. whatever the music- - or talking. all right. what is this? what can this be? it's a hooded thing. oh my god. it's kiryu coco. - who? (laughing) so what's your, what's your basically making
me do is wear a v tuber thing over my other v tuber thing. - [man behind camera] uh, yes. - [ken] this is like, if someone told me what people
wear to rave and i just, (laughing) but i was blind and i
just bought everything. that's what this is. - [man behind camera] oh, look at that. look at that. - [ken] i look like every
one of asus' products, republic of gamers. - [man behind camera] well!
i'd like to formally apologize to asus for ken's comments. i do not condone them
in any way whatsoever. - hi, my name is ken strix
bolito. how's it going? god, what am i doing? - [man behind camera] so,
ken, i think it's actually time for mystery tech, now that you have your wardrobe. - wait that wasn't mystery tech? - [man behind camera] no, that
was just uh, your wardrobe. - i'll keep the bow- oh wait no i can't- ah! austin actually bought
tech for mystery tech. - [austin] yeah i know,
pretty novel concept huh. - it is a novel concept.
i wish i learned it. okay. so austin got me
an, a-1 headphone adapter, which is a usbc deck. literally know nothing about this- - [austin] so let me tell you, it is very highly reviewed on amazon. it's like the best step up
from like the headphone adapter that comes in the box for you. - ah! the nbrzx 1-10 of course! powerful high quality sound. sure. let me take a
look at this deck first. that's a really excessive box for what is a normal size looking dongle.
it passed all of its reports. pass, pass, pass, pass, pass. no fails. must be good. i mean, i went to art school,
so i didn't really matter. you went to art school too. and that was my professor fun fact. - [austin] and look
where you both ended up. - well, i was going to say like, i'm upper management for matt. so look at, look at where we- (yelling) sometimes, sometimes your professors just end up being your subordinates. sometimes, sometimes life
just works out like that. i don't know. (crinkling) - [ken] as expected of
these plastic sony cans, they feel very lightweight.
they feel very plastic-y. but honestly, i feel like that's what some
people want because you're going to be using this
when you're running, you're going to be
using this on the train. sometimes not everyone wants
to wear expensive headphones out for whatever reason that might be, but these should actually
sound pretty decent. i believe i've used a
version of these before. like these have been
around for quite a while. - [austin] i can definitely confirm. i used to use a pair of these headphones. these are a classic. - [ken] the volume is pretty
loud. even at around like 80%. i probably wouldn't jack
it up higher than that. so there's a lot of
headroom with this dac, for these headphones, which
is really nice to see. it sounds fantastic. what i really like about
these sony headphones, especially for a lot of sony
headphones in this price range is the base response. so
it's not incredibly boom-y, but there is a lot of basic detail there, but it doesn't compromise
the mids and highs as much as i thought it would like the treble actually sounds pretty good. the vocals come out really well on this. this is a very well rounded pair for, you said less than 20 bucks, right? - [austin] the deck was $15 and those headphones are only $9.99. - are you serious? these
headphones are 10 bucks? - [austin] yup. - holy crap. - [austin] so $25 for the pair of those. - this is a really good set. holy crap. - [austin] so kent are you trying to say that when i incorporate
tech and mystery tech, i do a good job? - i would hope so. the expectation is that you
know about this stuff, not me. you almost did the z-flip. - [austin] good catch. - now, if you're wondering how
austin is paying for all this mystery tech stuff, it is thanks to the sponsor
of today's video mint, mobile, who has been working to
slash phone bills down to $15 a month since 2016, by cutting out the in
store retail experience, putting it all online and
passing on the savings to you. i think that was a
pretty good sales pitch. i try my best. try my best. you might've heard of mint mobile from a thing that happened last year, but they're days away now from
launching a brand new plan that is unlimited talk, text
and data for $30 a month. 30 bucks, austin. 30 bucks, which is less than half, of what the big carriers charge. and on top of that, you
get the same reliability. with that, you get 35
gigs of high speed data, which you can access on
4g or 5g depending on which one's stronger. and in addition, if
you have other devices, you have five gigs of
mobile hotspot included. i've really been liking the
speed and reliability of mint mobile. so if that's got you curious, definitely go check out the
link in the description. or go to mintmobile.com/austin and huge thanks to them for
sponsoring mystery tech. what is in here? oh, i already know. i already know. i see it peeking. this is the sony 1000 x mark four. active noise canceling headphones. - [austin] the question is, do they sound better than
the $10 pair of headphones? - probably. - [austin] i'm gonna think so. - so i will say, probably something i
shouldn't say about my present from austin evans and company, but i think i'll actually
like the older ones more. - [austin] what?! - this is saying them
before even trying them. but, let me explain. one of the main reasons why i think i would like the
thousand x mark threes more, is just because of compatibility. so on the bluetooth side, this does have ldac compatibility, which is a bluetooth code that's supported on android and
a bunch of sony products, but the mark threes were
compatible with aptx, which is very important if
you want to use it on a pc, because otherwise you're
kind of stuck with very low end codex. and i tend to use my
bluetooth headphones on my pc. so these probably won't work though. i'll have to try them to make sure though. i don't think i have
a pc here to try them, but um, we'll see. - [austin] try them on your z-flip. - i will try them on my z-flip because at the very least that
has ldac compatibility. oh wow. already the active noise
cancellation is heavy on these. wow. i can barely hear my own voice. holy crap. the sony anc headphones.
always really bass-y, i love it. ooh. it's just the noise
cancellation is so aggressive. again. i can't hear myself
talk, which is a very- i don't even know what to
think about that actually. it's very weird. play a song that- play
a song that you like, just type something in. test, test, test, test, test. austin, austin, austin, austin. yeah. it's low. it's really low. - like you can barely hear what people are saying around you. you can almost kind of
tell they're talking but you really can't hear
them. it's very oppressive. it's like yeah you really-
your head's like in a vacuum. - it's enough to zone yourself in. you can still hear a
little bit around you, but that is the most aggressive that i've heard any wireless
headphones, for noise cancellation. it's crazy. wow. okay. what is this? all right. so this is the robotosaur. he looks very derpy. (laughing) it's okay. he looks like he
has brain damaged already. i don't think that would have
added or detracted anything. there we go. oh. that looks stupid. he looks really dumb. [person behind camera]
why are his arms so long? (roaring) (laughing) - do you want to do something about this? go, come on, yeah, go. uh-huh uh-huh. that
way, that way, that way. (crash) not even mad, not even mad. god. why? why? all right, well. back in the pen. all right. what did austin evans get me. what the hell is this? the bob ross toaster. i like how mystery tech
has just become both toy dinosaurs and toasters. - [austin] happy little trees
ken, happy little trees. - oh, wes is here with
the fire extinguisher. that's all right. oh, austin just threw some bread. it's okay. whew very (censor) at holding bread. when your bread doesn't
fit in the toaster. - [austin] i mean, that is artesano bread. like it's high quality bread. - [ken] it's not that high quality. it's good. this is actually
the brand that i buy. - [austin] excuse me.
artesano. get that bread. - it's art-e-sano. not
ar-tees-ano, you dumb asses. it's art-e-sano. all right, let's get that bread. (laughing) okay. so my main problem with
this toaster is that, you know when toast is done, and it's just supposed
to (clicks tongue) right? the thing that scares
austin every morning? yeah. it didn't do that. which means i'm going to
have to either hand fix this, which i'm not going to do.
cause i like my fingers. - by the way, in this drawer where we hide
all of our important things to do videos like screwdrivers, and i fix the kits and whatnot. we also have our (laughing) naruto kunai's. - [austin] i mean. (laughing) - we're good. my legs are intact, i didn't stab myself, this one is uh- - [man behind camera] oh, ken! - [austin] those aren't chopsticks! oh. - there you go. bob ross
ladies and gentlemen. bob ross. - [man behind camera]
can we try and do this to one more piece of bread? - why? - [austin] a higher temperature. - [man behind camera]
yes, please. not zero. - it did not go down any more. this is the (censor)
toaster i've ever seen. see some smoke. - it is actually- i think it will actually combust and light on fire.
it has a lot of smoke. - [austin] it does look
a little suspicious. cause that doesn't look like the nice like steam that looks like actual fire. - [ken] no, it's it's fine. i'm monitoring it. if it catches
on fire, i'll let you know. okay. actually that is burning the bread. - [man behind camera] oh, pumped out. - perfect timing. (laughing) look at that! it actually
looks like bob ross. ladies and gentlemen here, we have you versus the one she
tells you not to worry about. - [man behind camera] is anyone
worried about him though? - something's coming
up behind me. isn't it? - [man behind camera] happy birthday ken. - well enjoy cleaning this up, matt. wait, there's another thing? what is even up there on the ceiling? there's a bucket, oh,
there's more bucket stuff. oh, i see. you just have to keep
doing it and undoing it until more fall down. okay. that's a lot. i know this is the end of
mystery tech because this ruins all of our continuity in the edit. so thank you very much for watching this episode of mystery tech. i hope you enjoyed, if you liked me being on
mystery tech instead of austin, please let me know in the comments below, otherwise check out our secondary channel. this is where matt... does something unless austin's on camera? because he's usually on camera
more than matt nowadays, which is kind of sad. give matt all the love and
support he deserves it. and otherwise, thanks for watching. he does. (squeaking)