- i bought a bunch of billboards. dude, we got the double billboard. we don't mess around. went on tv. grab your phone, go on youtube, search pewdiepie and subscribe to him. did radio ads. no one kills memes as
quickly and efficiently as this swedish man. bought bathroom ads. there's our ad. right above the urinal. and much more to try and stop t-series from passing pewdiepie in subscribers. t-series is growing four
times faster than pewdiepie. and if i don't do anything, pewdiepie won't be the number one most subscribed to youtuber in the world. - bring it on. - therefore, i spent all my money on ads so he can remain the number one most subscribed to channel in the world. - there it is.
- yep. - all right, billboard number one. aw, man, we just missed it. healthy food, healthy kid, happy mom. - there it is. - hey.
- hey. calling all bros, you can save youtube. subscribe to pewdiepie,
unsubscribe from t-series. truer words have never been spoken. that's just the start of our
campaign, onto the next one. - oh dude, it stays up
there for a good minute too. - all right, guys, is it on this side? ah, dude, we got the double billboard. we don't mess around. t-series, it's game end for you. game end. escape up, in game, yes. - i got pewdiepie hiding in the bushes. - hey, what does this one say again? - subscribe to pewdiepie
for original content. - his content is so original. i've never seen someone
able to make every video about reddit, but so
original at the same time. it's mind blowing. oh, it's not there anymore. - vote for pewdiepie. - vote, oh yeah, don't vote for t-series. we're just gonna put a bunch
of words of pewdiepie's quote. pewdiepie also said pumpkins are cool. there it is again. look at, look at this, this is the busiest street in the world. - there's one car coming. - yeah, see, and that one car's now gonna subscribe to pewdiepie. - they just subscribed. - you're welcome, pewdiepie. all right, let's continue our conquest. - that person in that red car right there, they literally just have to stare at pewdiepie's face like the entire time. look, he's just like, "hey
guys, how's it going?" - "it's pew news." - "it's pewdiepie." follow pewdiepie to salvation. - i'm gloria borger. - i've got a couple questions for him, but we gotta push, push this big deal that he wants everybody to know about. what is the mission that you want to have accomplished here today? - basically, the number one most subscribed to youtuber
has 67 million subscribers. and there's another
channel with 66 million about to pass him, and so i
just wanted to tell you guys to go subscribe to
pewdiepie because, you know, i want him to remain the
number one most to youtuber. it'd just be a shame if he got passed. - okay, now who's challenging him here? some group out of india? - yeah, exactly, t-series,
they do indian music, 'cause, you know, a lot of people in
india are getting internet. so like, it's just growing really fast. 'cause they have a billion
people, we only have 300 million. so it's not really fair, but we're, we're trying to keep him number one. - yeah, so they're gonna pass
him in like under a week. - not if, not after today.
- not after today. - yeah, correct, if we didn't do this. - i'll be damned if it happens. - i agree. - it is really good to have you guys in. thanks a lot, guys. - so you're at an airport and you're waiting for your baggage. we now have ads for you. "we need your help, subscribe." - oh, we just got pushed out of the way. - screw our ad. - so we're here at an airport. this is tsa, apparently tsa isn't open. but if you look right through here, on the other side of tsa,
there's our ad, pewdiepie. - this is the daily reflector. - jake, what do you see at the top of the- - i see a subscribe to pewdiepie. - let's click on it.
- okay. - what happens when you click on the ad? oh, it takes you to pewdiepie's channel. now let's refresh it just
so they know it's real. all right, i refreshed it. still there, boom, another ad here. guys, even when you go
on the daily reflector, 'cause i know you all like to read news because you're educated little kids. you're still gonna see the ad. - you know, it's funny
that this news source redirects you to an
even better news source. - that's true. - my pewdiepie ad isn't up. i'm revolting. do you want some granite countertop? too bad, pewdiepie doesn't endorse it. oh, is it on that tv? - mr. beast. - hey, what's up man? we just came here to
look at the ad on the tv. - hey, how's it going? i don't think our ad's
actually going right now. - are you subscribed to pewdiepie? - no. - you should do it right now.
- yeah. - just subscribe, okay.
- yeah, to pewdiepie. not t-series, just pewdiepie. - oh, i am subscribed. - oh, you're already subscribed. - yes! bravo! bravo! you the man! - high five, we did it. - i'm proud of you guys. - oh, wait. pewdiepie subscribers get
their smoothies paid for. - okay. - he should also get $10 for
being already subscribed. - yeah. - it feels weird not doing
$10,000 and just $10. so we don't have an ad here? - i guess our ad didn't make it here. it was supposed to be here. okay, well good job
company that we paid for. - i love buying ads and
them not being there. - that worked out good. - no it didn't, our ad wasn't here. - but we found a pewdiepie subscriber. - there's two people walking in, and because the ad isn't there, they might not be subscribed. - we can't let this stand. disgusted. - sign there.
- you almost lost your head. how do we expect to beat t-series if we do a marketing campaign and they forget to market? see you guys at the next spot. - i have interviewed big celebrities all over the world, but this is one of the
biggest moments of my career. mr. beast is in the studio. - thanks for having me. - he showed up this morning. mr. beast and chris, you
asked for this air time. - yes, sir. - for what reason? - so there's something really
important i wanted to address. pewdiepie, the most subscribed to channel. he has 67 million subscribers. - pewdiepie is number one
in the world on youtube? - correct.
- yep, but he's about to get overtaken. - by who? - t-series, they have 65 million. so i'm just trying to,
you know, get as much advertising as i can for
pewdiepie to, you know, help, help him stay number one. - how can we help you, mr. beast? - everyone listening, just
grab your phone, go on youtube, search pewdiepie and subscribe to him. we need you to do that so
he can remain number one. he has the most original
content on youtube. it's just really important
that you do that. - all right, good to see you. - good to see you, man. - thank you mr. beast.
- no problem. - good to see you guys. - you should have asked him where the name mr. beast
came from, what's the- - i couldn't think of anything to ask him. all he wanted to do was
talk about pewdiepie. i have no idea what pewdiepie is. - hello, nice to meet
you, wanna be friends? no, i do not wanna be your friend. i want fight you and steal
all your of your subscribers. oh, well then, a fight you will have. - hey dog, are you
subscribed to pewdiepie? oh, we lost the dog. - good bye doggo. - oh, he's back. that's the t-series squad over there. - look, they're all red like t-series. - they're going into battle, but little do they
know, we've already won. t-series armor is pathetic. see all these cars? these are pewdiepinniads. these are t-serians. - you suck, subscribe to pewdiepie! - you suck! - take that! - are you subscribed to pewdiepie? - no. - can you subscribe to him please? - sure.
- thank you. hey jake! maybe we're just going
to the wrong stores. also, the guy is staring at us. he's like, "why did they have a camera?" there's our ad. right above the urinal is our ad. "principal's office." "i said the s-h word." "i said the f word." "i said, pewdiepie doesn't
have original content." oh, he's gonna get punished. that's a criminal offense. so you found that balled up
piece of paper on the ground? right above your urinal. and then you opened it
and it said t-series. - yes i did. - so you crumbled it up
again and you threw it away? - yes, definitely. - wait, is this our ad? - no.
- screw you. is this our ad? - no.
- screw those guys. this is our ad. "calling all nine year olds." "we want you to subscribe to pewd." there's a guy in there when i said that. i feel bad for the guy using the bathroom when i said that, i'm sorry to you. oh, they're just, i bet
a total of like, maybe, 10 people see this today. "millions of people every year are affected by awkward handshakes." - yes. that was awful. - you can help end this epidemic. subscribe to pewdiepie. awkward handshakes, as you can see, the success rate used to be pretty high, but as the years progress, the failure rates are
going higher and higher. and if you don't subscribe to
pewdiepie by the year 2020, every handshake's going
to be super awkward. so, do the world a favor,
subscribe to pewdiepie. - wow, coach macy. - wow, resigning, that's crazy. - oh, oh.
- what is this? "hey, sexy, send me a pic of you." like, they sent a pic of t-series. - gross. - "i don't want to talk to you anymore." "this is so sad, alexa
don't play anything." - that is so sad, oh my goodness. - when pewdiepie asks for nudes, you don't send him t-series. we should burn this. - yep. - only logical thing to
do, light it on fire. - death to t-series. that put out the fire, oh. - take that, t-series. it is my cry for help. our pewdiepie army needs more people. we just don't have the manpower. follow me on twitter @mrbeastyt. how's it going, bros? the pewdiepie army needs help desperately. please go enlist and
subscribe to pewdiepie. that's going on my instagram story. if you wanna see that, go
follow me on instagram, mrbeast. you guys, tell him not to
judge me for this, all right. for the sake of everything you love, do not let t-series grasp
that number one spot from him and ruin our ongoing battle against me. we only ask you to do one thing, go tell everyone you know,
especially your indian friends, to subscribe to pewdiepie and
unsubscribe from t-series. to pewdiepie. subscribe to pewdiepie. subscribe to pewdiepie. subscribe to pewdiepie. subscribe to pewdiepie. - all right well, make whatever that was into something cool. we wrote that in a day. - you guys remember when you
guys were doing the lego car? - yeah. - they were the guys in
the radio station car. - i remember that dude!
- you remember that? - i was like, "we're probably gonna be
on the radio or something." i bet you guys weren't like recording. - i talked about it on thunder country. - oh, wow. we gave minimal effort and it succeeded. - i just hope one day
we can be as creative and original as pewdiepie. i mean, there's a reason he's number one. - i also wanna get the word out to subscribe to pewdiepie. - neither do i at this point. i subscribed to him and i even have that little bell
for the notifications. mr. beast, i subscribe
to you too and pewdiepie. we gotta get those numbers up. - that's right! subscribe to pewdiepie. bring it on t-series. - yeah, yeah, all the way in the back. - is it cool if we go take a look at it? - of course, man. - we got all, we bought this whole tv. - oh we did? - subscribe to pewdiepie
and subscribe to grandayy. - i didn't do that, they did that. so this is a live broadcast and they're broadcasting our ads along with weather and stuff like that. - t, ooh, that t. - it's like t-series. - that t kind of triggered me. i'm learning that advertising's a scam. and this is why everyone
does youtube advertising now. oh no, don't worry, like we just paid money for this ad, it's fine. - oh, there it is. - hey, the fall collection, hey, everyone. - i hope everyone saw it. - subscribe to pewdiepie. - did you see it? okay, good. - hey, did you see that ad? no? did you see that ad? man, i think no one saw the ad. it's almost like it's a
dying form of advertising. - it's right here, but it doesn't come on, it's not on until- - is there any way you
could turn it on or? - 'cause it's, it's
remotely done through them. - this tee represents t-series. the ball, his subscribers,
or it's subscribers. i don't know what gender is t-series. and that's, see, that's
how we're on track to do. what does pewdiepie do to
their subscribers, chris? - he wacks 'em. - good enough. - how you doing, buddy? - i'm doing good. - hey, are you subscribed to pewdiepie? - you believe it.
- all right. - are the people in
your glasses subscribed? - they better be. - jake isn't subscribed to pewdiepie. - wait no way, no way,
jake, jake, stop, stop. jake let me see it, let me see it. jake. jake. jake. chris, what do we do? you failed. - oh, no! - what, chris? chris. all along. - are you even subscribed? - yes, me and chris are
subscribed to pewdiepie. - i don't know anymore. - me and chris literally
watch pewdiepie every day. - you literally just watched me subscribe. - can i subscribe? - that's like wearing- - you're wearing a subscribe to pewdiepie and you're not subscribed. yeah, never come back. you dishonored our youtube channel. - what do you guys think
about that sign over there? that's on this bus. - i have no idea.
- no? - t-series diss track. i'm glad i could enjoy
great advertising during, oh, we got back to back. - oh yeah, we do, we have like six ads. - why, why aren't they
paying attention to our ad? chris, look at all the people
we're reaching with our ad. the only person we're
reaching with our ad is us. did we just wanna advertise to ourselves? hey, there's a person. is she noticing our ads? all right. - got a question for you, bud. - what's up? - are you subscribed to pewdiepie? - no. - can you do that real quick? - he's about to get passed by t-series. - and you subscribing can make a really big difference. - right there?
- there it is. - just tap it, thank you.
- boom. - you guys subscribed to pewdiepie? - are you subscribed to pewdiepie? - i saw that on the ecu thing. - yeah, you did? - that's totally not us at all. - did you subscribe? - yeah.
- oh, cool. - are y'all subscribed to pewdiepie? - yes.
- oh, you are? - are you subscribed to pewdiepie? - uh, no. - where were you when this happened? - can, i need you to subscribe to him. here, chris, can you hold that for him? - here, i'll hold all your stuff for you. - oh, you lost a ketchup. - don't wanna lose that ketchup
there, that's important. that's a lot of ketchup, bro. - right, we're gonna have to- - let's inspect his bag first. - should we torture the ketchup? i'm not sure the viewers can see it, but all right, hit subscribe. thank you, here's your ketchup back. - oh, there it is. subscribe to pewdiepie. you should do like ecu says,
and subscribe to pewdiepie. oh, there it is. oh, there it is. - there we go. - pewdiepie all right, t-series. does that, does that ad right there convince you to subscribe to pewdiepie? - absolutely.
- it does? - he's doing it, he's doing it, hit that subscribe
button, there it is, boom. - art show fundraiser, i think not. - t-series, we will not falter. we may be nine years old, but we fight like 12 year olds. t-series, you're about to become l-series. we are like the mighty spartan. we may not have as large as
a population as your india, but what we do have is original content and the most accurate news source this planet has ever seen. pewdiepie didn't get to 67
million subscribers in a night. he crossed many bridges
to get where he is today. and we aren't gonna let
you tear down his legacy. calling all the low gangsters
and the jake paulers. we must unite under one common goal. we must subscribe to pewdiepie
and put an end to t-series. that is my dying wish. - wait, you're dying? - no, actually i feel pretty fine. - okay. - oh, i'm so shocked and sad. i can't believe someone would do this. leave a like if you are depressed. [music] mr. beast, oh [music] [music] mr. beast, oh [music] [music] mr. beast, oh [music]