- pound four pound. these are some of the most powerful gaming computers on the market. but this man, he won't let it happen. holding your own hardware hostage. hey tim, that's a cowardly move. what's the matter? are you scared of us? but for real though. apple's most recent computers
are absolutely incredible. their custom silicon has elevated arm from mobile to monstrous. and it's an open secret
that these m1 series chips have powerhouse gps in them. so why don't they show
off cool stuff anymore like playstation emulators for mac? - again, our goal is to have the best game machine in the world. - why tim? is mac gaming really that bad? well, war thunder
sponsored this video today to help us explore that. and we're gonna start with
a look at a handful of games that were made with the mac in mind, or at least ported to the platform. let's start off with the
thin and light category, where we're gonna compare
the baseline m1 macbook air against an hp envy x360. war thunder gives us
one of our best results, which makes sense given that
it was specifically made using apple's own metal api. we managed playable frame
rates at 1200p on high, though our poor m1 was
reaching pretty scary temps, and as expected it handily beat our comparably priced
and sized hp envy 360 x. a clear win for the m1. but getting into more
graphically intensive aaa games, like shadow of the tomb raider
and deus ex: mankind divided, we see the m1's seven gpu
course start to struggle just barely scraping
together enough frames for these games to be playable. in fairness it still beats the hp, but by a considerably smaller margin, probably owing to the air's
lack of a cooling fan. another thing worth noting is that the m1 would
get absolutely dunked on by any comparably priced
machine with discreet graphics. but those aren't exactly thin and light. let's step up then to the $2,000 m1 pro equipped macbook pro. we chose the baseline model with an eight core cpu and 14 core gpu since that's the cheapest pro model that gives us extra gpu cores. and that translated to respectable
numbers in war thunder, then in deus ex and
shadow of the tomb raider we observed performance that
was two times and four times the passively cooled m1 respectively. unfortunately these numbers
do pale in comparison to a gaming focused windows machine like the $1,850 lenovo legion
7i with a 3060 mobile gpu. the graphs kind of speak
for themselves here. ouch. now i can hear your cherry
blues clicking away. click bait. i thought you said these
were gaming machines. but hear me out for a second. the baseline 14 inch macbook pro might not get the most fps per dollar, but it is still one of, if not the best all around machines on the market with an amazing screen,
track pad and speakers. and it really says something that even running through
translation layers and with such low power consumption that these games run at all, let alone at playable frame rates. it's a testament to the
capability of apple silicon, capability that on the m1
ultra will match an rtx 3090 if apple is to be believed. spoiler, we don't believe them. subscribe if you don't
wanna miss our coverage on the new hardware. the big issue here is support. there just aren't that many games being developed for mac specifically. but there are some very usable
ways to fill in the gaps, like game streaming. stadia, xcloud and geforce now, all work brilliantly in
chromium based browsers. and the choice really comes down to whether you prefer the rotating lineup and value of xbox game pass, or if you prefer to own
your games more permanently like with nvidia service. playstation now will also hopefully be a contender in the future. but that won't happen until sony releases a version of their app
for arm or browsers. the biggest considerations
with streaming games is your proximity to the
nearest the data center and the quality of your
internet connection. also you'll probably want
a usb c to ethernet dongle for the best experience, and to sign up for a
notification on lttstore.com if you wanna be the first to get our new screwdriver and backpack. for those who prefer their
games running locally, well, there are surprisingly
good options there too. starting with parallel, which
is the only way to run windows on these m1 chips, at
least until microsoft loosens the reins on windows on arm. the good news is that i was floored by the sheer number of
games that are working, not just working but working well, even if you do end up leaving
some performance on the table due to virtualization limitations. another option is
crossover by codeweavers. you could think of it kind
of like the linux windows compatibility and intermediary proton, except for our mac. in fact, codeweavers
collaborated with valve to develop proton and
our big sponsors of wine. so we really like what
this company is doing. the issue with both of
these solutions though is a, that they're paid, and b, that compatibility
is spotty at best. codeweavers at least will make
special game specific tweaks to help improve the situation, but there are only so many
programs one company can support. thankfully, there are many
incredible games and experiences that do not require translation layers. let's go to adam's game corner and talk about native mac gaming. - first up is apple arcade. the program is more focused on touch screen based experiences, something that apple
could better accommodate if they would just put a
touch screen in their laptops, but there's still a ton of great games that you can get for the price. like fantasian, a classic
jrpg from hironobu sakaguchi, the creator of final fantasy that takes place on
these handmade diagrams, and they look so beautiful. or lego builders journey,
a gorgeous puzzle platform about creativity and parenthood. how about the addictive cartoon, king of eliminate things on a
grid style games, grindstone. and honestly there's a lot more. or you could spend your time playing numerous incredible indie hits that have imported to the platform, like chicory: a colorful tale. an adventure puzzle that explores the insecurities and self-doubt that comes with being an artist. oh, disco elysium. man, there's not a week that
goes by where i don't think about that philosophical
alcoholic cop simulator. or how about tunic? the one part zelda, one part dark souls isometric adventure game. or wildermyth, the procedurally
generated tactical rpg. wait, where are you going? or timberborn. it's simcity, but with beavers, and don't forget you
can emulate on dolphin. - obviously, with the ability
to play so many indies on mac the gaming situation isn't as dire as apple's reputation
would lead you to believe. but it could be much better. could, if it wasn't for one
big obstacle, apple themselves, whose apathy towards gaming on
mac, couldn't be more clear. it kind of makes sense
though, if you think about it. what's in it for apple? as massive as the gaming
industry has become, 52% of the revenue comes from mobile, where the boys from cupertino already score 30% of all
revenue on their platform, earning them more gaming profit than the biggest actual
gaming companies combined. the truth is this model is so profitable that if apple had their way you wouldn't be able to get mac os apps in games outside of the app store either. steam, gone, browser apps, nope. and as far as i can tell apple only allows this
kind of freedom on the mac because it's an already existing precedent for their computers. but while it's partly about the money, it's also about control. and when apple can't have control, well, they can get pretty petty. you cannot use an nvidia
gpu on your $50,000 mac pro just because of a long lasting spat between the two companies. apple actually went out of their way to block nvidia's drivers. now in fairness, nvidia is also notoriously
difficult to work with. and as far as i can tell, released those drivers
just to spite apple, but apple also stifles
development in other ways by continuously refusing to
support cross-platform apis all in the name of that
precious, precious control. they won't support vulkan, and they deprecated opengl
and opencl with macos mojave, leaving support for those standard standing as they were over a decade ago. so now your only option for games on m1 are games that can support,
or at least be translated to apple's own proprietary metal api. and that's done using
a tool like moltenvk, a compatibility layer
between vulkan and metal. a development effort that
we wouldn't need at all if apple would just support vulkan. you could argue that game
studios should pick up the slack. but frankly, why should a game developer spend the money to go
through the expensive process of converting their game to metal when the only people affected
are 15% of the market at best? but in reality only a
subset of those users would have devices with the gpu horsepower to run a aaa game. a subset of those users are interested in gaming on their laptops. and a subset of those users wouldn't be happy with
cloud gaming services, or some of the other things
we've already talked about. so really it's a story that's getting a bit tired these days. apple engineers incredible hardware, sells at high prices, and finds new and inventive ways to make the experience
worse for their customer. like non-user removable
monitor power cables and ssd compatibility high jinks. and until apple decides that they wanna make a real investment in opening their platform, i mean, seriously, rosetta
2 alongside vulkan, would make developing games
for mac, very approachable. or a serious investment
in devouring game studios, all of microsoft and sony kind of like what they've
done with apple tv+, then macs will remain great gaming devices whose potential will
never be fully realized. oh, there's potential
to segue to our sponsor, who is of course, war
thunder for this video, one of the few excellent competitive games that you can actually
play natively on the mac, not to mention with great performance even all the way down to
the m1 based macbook air. you guys can learn more about war thunder at the link in the video description. as much as this video might
have been a bit of a downer thanks for watching. if you're interested in learning more about the performance of these laptops, check out our reviews of
the m1 16 inch devices. (upbeat music)