- i am going to spend the next 50 hours alone in solitary confinement. - good luck. - [jimmy] i'm scared. this right here is the
room i will be suffering in for the next two days. normally, i do 24 hours
in a challenge like this, but i decided i'd push
myself and go for 50. this is a one-way mirror
and i can't see through it, but the boys on the other side can. chris could be licking this
mirror and i can't tell. - oh, i'm licking it all right. - there's a tv in here
that they have control of. - ima play his first video. - [jimmy] mr. beast. hey, that's my channel. - [chris] that's real torture,
watching your old videos. - i hate you guys. (pounding on glass) i'm scared. let's see if the door's actually locked. oh, darn it, that would've been funny. can i open this? oh, i can't. if i leave early, my punishment is i have to get slimed. but if i survive all 50 hours, then all the boys have to get slimed. which is why they're
gonna try to get me out. - so we just found out that
if we don't get jimmy out before the 50 hours, we get slimed. i didn't know that. - i didn't either, but we gotta
make sure he gets out now. - that's gross.
- hey, jimmy. do you wanna hear what the inside of my throat sounds like? (retching sounds) - thank you. these are my friends. - enjoy the most annoying
thing in the entire world, (meowing)
minecraft cats. - i will admit, it's pretty annoying, but i'm not cracking. are they gonna make me listen to this? - i'm trying to annoy jimmy so i'm having "are you going to finish
that croissant?" play. - [video] are you going
to finish that croissant? - i think i'm in hell. - i don't know how it can
get much worse, to be honest. - [video] that croissant. - it's finally done. (man moaning) (guys laughing) - i'm just gonna lay here and ignore it. they'll get bored eventually. (person farting) (guys laughing) - look at him on the floor. he's on the floor. (screeching sound) - [jimmy] hey, open up. - what?
- open up. - what? - [jimmy] let me talk to them. wait, here, sit there. shut up! normally, when i torture
you guys, i give you money. am i getting money? - you're getting something
else green, it's slime. - enjoy all 10 hours of patrick sleeping. (chair hitting door) - oh my god. (metal music) - we're good, we fixed it. (whimsical music) gonna give jimmy the most anxiety ever. (phone buzzing) enjoy this. got a couple of notifications,
better check them. (metal music) - i almost had 'em. after listening to this iphone alarm on repeat for over an hour, i realized this was gonna be a lot
harder than i thought. i'm kind of going crazy. so here's the game plan. those are the speakers. i have a chair. i can take the tripod from this camera, and we're gonna put you on the ground. oh, yes, all right, i got one. ah, ah. they don't have an off switch, so i think i have to
just bash them together. batter up. shut up, i'm tired! it's been an hour. yes, die! yes, it's gone! you know how nice it is not to hear an iphone alarm
in your ear constantly. i think they were gonna make
me listen to this for 10 hours. that's ridiculous. all right, i'm gonna try
to get some shut eye. i think they all left to go get things, which means i'm here alone. and when they get back,
they're not gonna let me sleep. so i'm gonna try to get some sleep now. hopefully, i can catch a few
zs 'cause i guarantee you tonight, they're not
gonna let me sleep at all. also not hearing that
iphone alarm is amazing. i literally thought i was gonna die. - hey, jimmy, hello? - sounds like the speaker's off. - he broke the speakers.
- he broke the speakers. - i'm gonna sneak in there and fix it. you messed up the speaker. - chris, hey, you can't come in here. you guys can't do this. - oh, my gosh.
- help! - oh, wait. - give me the pillow. - give him the pillow! - i got it, i got it. - get out. go, close. - this is a load of barnacles. - how are we gonna get to this man? - despite only being three
hours in the challenge, it was honestly getting pretty rough. but thankfully, i
destroyed their speakers. - we can't play a speaker in there, but we can play a speaker
out here into there. he destroyed the entire sound system. - so this is our solution. - i have a three part plan to hide myself. step one is i need to block the door so they can't see me through that. step two is i need to cover the mirror. step three is i need to cover the cameras. once i do all that, they'll have no way of seeing what i'm up to. - why's he taking a part of the bed? what's he doing? (laughing) - [video] clouds? - clouds! - [video] clouds?
- clouds? - [video] clouds? - i'm taking off the walls
and covering the mirror. i'm gonna turn it towards
facing the corner. now that camera can't see
this side of the room. as you can see, it can't currently see me. and boom, now, the window is
sealed, they can't see me. and i moved the other camera. they have no eyes on me currently. so hopefully, i can get a good nap in and they can't wake me up. - we just filmed a rap. all of it was freestyle. jimmy, you're not gonna be able to sleep because you're gonna hear our sweet voices rapping all night long. - i've been in here
for almost eight hours. i'm bored and i still have 42 hours left. i'm not even a fifth of the way done. i think i hear karl above me, but i don't know what he's doing. - so i'm on top of the isolation room. i have the speakers all set up. we're gonna open it up right there, and we're gonna play some music. he's not gonna be able to
reach it, so we get to win. - is karl above me? - maybe. - so if i were to do
this, i won't hit anyone. - oh, my god. - i knew it, he is up there! - come here. - no, you come here. - no, i can't.
- i can't. - yes you can. - i'm listening to a screaming goat. - nerd! - is this what you've been
doing the last five hours? - yes! (goat screaming) - i don't like seeing it
from this side, jimmy. - i'm gonna hide under this blanket, and they're gonna
eventually stop torturing me because i'm not gonna react
and they're gonna get bored. - what we're about to do is play the rap we recorded for jimmy, 'cause i think it's gonna annoy him pretty good. - jimmy! i'm gonna lower the speakers. we worked really hard on this, so please don't hurt the speakers, okay? we'll play it over and over. - [music] jimmy ain't finna sleep (no sir) [music] - i'm not gonna get them the
satisfaction of reacting. (muffled rap music) - hey, from the top, one more! (rap music) - all right, so we got jimmy's food. sorry, here's your food. - thank you. solitary confinement,
more like solitary easy. thank you nerds. i don't know why they
gave me a filet mignon, but i'm not complaining, it tastes good. they're making this a little too easy. i need a ladder to fix that
camera, it's really high up. you guys took my tripod. - okay, that's fair. you'll give this back, right?
- yeah. my plan worked, i now have a ladder. karl made this hole in the wall, and i might be able to
reach it with this ladder. (suspenseful music) ha ha, i got the speakers, okay. gonna throw those over there. out of sight, out of mind. i'm good at this stuff. and now i'll fix their camera. now that i got what i wanted. welcome back camera,
sorry for abusing you. don't know what that was. - hey, jimmy, please don't tell them i gave you the ladder, please. - nothing happened.
- all right, cool. - just don't tell 'em why
their speakers are gone. - sounds good. - who took the speakers? - karl, someone, whoever
stole those speakers, shout out to you, i love you. - you really didn't take 'em? i'm so confused. (low tempo music) - we got jimmy a little gift. this is his favorite actor
that's ever existed, drake bell. - hey, what's up jimmy? it's drake bell here. mr. beast, i hope that you, you succeed in your challenge. but karl wants me to say that you should really leave your room. you should really leave the room. i hope you succeed. i hope that you are able to- - turn it off, it backfired! jake, turn it off. - drake wants me to succeed. for drake, for drake! i'm doing this for drake bell! - i don't know why i didn't
watch it before showing him, but it backfired completely. and now i think it's gonna
give him a burst of energy. so we gotta diminish
that as much as possible. - why'd you have to go
back on what we said? just read the script! - i have an alarm clock. - i have 47 alarm clocks. - and we took off the top so
that he can't turn it off. - oh, jimmy's gotta wake up. hey man, it's time to wake
up, your alarm's going off. (alarms beeping) - why do you guys have so many alarms? - 'cause it's alarming
you're not awake yet, jimmy - your alarms turned off,
i didn't even do anything. - karl what did you do wrong? - i wasn't even asleep,
i was just laying here. - do you need a hand? - now he has a siren. who gave him a siren? - yeet, oh, my god! - i think at this point
we're just exciting him with how much that we're
hanging out with him. i think we just absolutely
isolate him now. - yes. - it's been a pretty crazy first half day. the boys don't seem to be
messing with me at the moment. so i'm gonna try to get some zs. i'll see you in the morning. (whimsical music) good morning, tarik. yeah, you turning on cameras? - yeah. - what is this, solitary cam-finement? - yes it is. - they made a mistake
giving me this bad boy. - guys he's gonna cause destruction! oh, my god, he broke the tv. no, no, no, no! tv, dude. - broke our tv. karl, i'll hand this to you, go. - [man] battery, battery, battery! - jimmy, you want some entertainment? - [jimmy] i do! - all right here it comes. how's that for entertainment? - [jimmy] i hope you fall! - so i just wanted to get jimmy a cake, 'cause he's been in here for a while, and he could probably
use a cake right now. - when i do "last to leaves," i typically feed the
boys so they don't die. - that's true, that's very true. i'll get you something good. - maybe if i had something that properly nutritionized my body. - okay.
- that's not a word. i might not slime you. 'cause we all know i'm
gonna win, i don't care. play all the luigi screaming you want. - in there, oh! - that actually splashed
on me a little bit. - [jimmy] i missed. - jimmy wanted a nutritious meal. if he doesn't like that,
i have a backup plan. - i was not expecting that, thank you! - what are you chowing on? - some lasagna and chicken. - what? - no, no, this is pretty easy, thank you. - this man's gotten lasagna, steak, cake. what has he not eaten in this challenge? last challenge, i had beans. - what did i do to deserve this? - that's sad. i feel terrible. why would you voluntarily
do this to yourself? - hey jimmy, you have a visitor. - oh, hey. - this is scary, i don't like this at all. i'm not loving that orange on you. - i think that's the least of my concerns. i've been in here for 35 hours. - don't you want to get out
and go home with maddie, jimmy? - no, not really, it's 15 more hours. - it's solitary confinement. not solitary hang out
with your girlfriend. (rock music) - i smell so bad. - hey karl, you ready? - yes. - i'm coming in! geronimo! - i actually thought that was karl. it's been a while since i heard from them, so i think they actually
went home for the night. which means i've got it easy. or they're waiting for me to go to sleep so they can wake me up and piss me off. - [woman] they ask you how you are. you just have to say that you're fine, when you're not really fine. - i've been laying on this mattress for the last few hours, just chilling. could've sworn the guys were gonna come back to mess with
me, but they didn't. so, i guess i'll just
go to bed, i don't know. i'm excited to get outta
here, this is my last night. this place is disgusting. gosh, i miss my bed, this sucks. (guitar music) - it's time to wake jimmy up, so let's give him something to listen to. - good morning, like a normal person, i start off the morning with a pee. they got rid of my timer, so i don't know how
long i've been in here. also, i forgot to flush the toilet. to be honest, this isn't as
hard as i thought it would be. i thought while doing this
challenge, i'd go really crazy, but i'm actually only
going slightly crazy. - jimmy, no cheating. - four hours and 30 minutes left? - dummy. - bro, he thinks there's four hours left and he still feels good. there's only 43 minutes left, we gotta mess with him. (leaf blower blowing) - had to get all your stink out. - oh, it's pretty bad. (intense music) - all right, jimmy, the clock's at zero. you can come out now. - okay. - all right, let's let him out. you can come out. - oh, what if i did. based on that reaction that means- - no, we were just wondering
if you were gonna fall. - yeah, yeah. they arrived at 9:00 am. they then proceeded to make me watch an hour and a half of memes, and they messed with me for 20 minutes. on god, it's 10:50 not 11:15, when i get out. i have an hour and 20 minutes left. i'm not leaving early, close this door. you guys are jerks. - we already know we lost.
- yeah. - so i wanted to get him
in there for another hour. - let's go watch an anime. - let's go watch an anime, come on. - hey, what's up? - you can unlock the
door, it's been an hour. - you stayed in an hour extra, by the way. you stayed 51 hours in solitary. - your mom stayed 51 hours in solitary. - she did not.
- you're not my mom. - oh, he's out, bro. - [woman] transition. - i survived 50 hours of your torture. i had to listen to an iphone
alarm for three hours. - it was an accident. - go ahead, dump the slime. - don't do it. - jimmy, let's talk about,
let's talk about it. - stop, stop, stop. - wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. (all yelling) - huggies, huggies! - no, chris, no! - [music] mr. beast 6000, oh whoa [music] (explosion)