- hey guys, this is austin. this is the acer conceptd 7, and it is a different type of laptop. back at computex, intel
showed us a few new systems that were specifically
designed for creators, so today they wanted to sponsor a video taking a look at what
exactly makes this different. for years, if you wanted a
laptop that could do real work, you were pretty much
left with two options. on one hand, you could
pick up a gaming laptop, or on the other, you
could get a much beefier and much more expensive workstation. the idea here is that
you want to buy a laptop which is creator-focused, right, so it doesn't have rgb and
crazy over-the-top stuff. it has real things like
color-accurate displays. rgb's fine. more importantly, there are sacrifices when it comes to doing real
work on a gaming laptop, so the screen is one of
the most obvious cuts. so here with the 1080p
high refresh rate panel, it's nice for gaming. it's really not ideal for things like photo and video editing, where we would much prefer
to have a 4k display with good color accuracy. then there are the
other specs to consider. while this guy is rocking 16 gigs of ram, which is fine for the most part, a lot of programs such as after effects can absolutely eat up
a lot more than that. and then there's the ssd to consider. for 512 gigs, i mean, yeah,
that's fine for a gaming laptop, but it really isn't enough
when you're dealing with huge 4k files, so again, it's sort of like one of those more subtle differences between a gaming laptop and a creator pc. a lot of times, it's
just in the little things that make a huge difference
in the long haul. then there are workstations. so these are specifically
meant for creative people. i mean, you've got high-end components, especially when it comes to
workloads such as 3d rendering. this is really where the sweet spot is. the only downside, though, is that not only are they monstrously huge and big for the most part, but they also do not come cheap. that's not necessarily
a good thing, though. i mean, sure, if you want
to deal with the weight, that's one thing, but the
price on something like this is extremely high especially
when you compare it to a creator laptop. now, for my purposes, this
is really more powerful, and it is able to do everything i need. i mean, yeah, it's nice to
have the xeon and the quadro, but for video editing, this is really where the sweet spot is as far as i'm concerned. crack these systems open, and you will find that they
are very, very similar. so the conceptd is based on that same chassis design as the predator. now, on the inside, they
look almost identical, and that's for good reason. they share a lot of the same components, including the 9th generation
intel core i7 processor as well as rtx 2060 graphics. really where the conceptd
differentiates itself is not with the amount of fans or cooling or anything like that, but it comes with that 4k display, the 32 gigs of ram, the one terabyte ssd, the things that actually do
make a bigger difference. there's also an advantage in price here, because acer's already done
all of the r&d for this system. all it takes is for them to add those creator-specific features without having to go and develop an entirely new laptop to back that up, and especially when it
comes to that triton, man. i mean, i really like it. like, it's super well-built. i know this has actually been ken's main gaming system for a bit, so when you figure you're
just adding the 4k display and a couple of other important things, it really does make for
a very, very solid laptop when it comes to a creator pc. even though this is a
fairly thin light system, you still have all the ports you need, so importantly it does
have a thunderbolt 3 port, and that's basically non-negotiable
for me at this point. if i'm using a work laptop, i rely heavily on thunderbolt. but you also have plenty of other i/o including hdmi, mini
displayport, ethernet, usb. i mean, you're pretty much covered here. then there's the more subtle stuff. so personally, i'm a big fan
of the very clean white look of the conceptd 7. i mean, nothing against rgbs and black and red gamer laptops, but this is a very, very clean aesthetic, something that i definitely prefer over a screaming over-the-top ridiculous system when i'm trying to get work done. now all this is ignoring the fact that this is of course a very
capable gaming pc as well, and the cool thing is this is certainly not the only
creator pc that's coming out. so right now not only do
we have the razer blade, but we also have the asus zenbook pro duo. there's a ton of intel-powered designs which can do a lot of
things very, very well, and again, they don't break the bank. sure, some of them can get expensive, but if you look at a workstation, yeah, no, it's certainly
not so bad anymore, is it? and inside all of these,
you're going to find the latest 9th generation
intel core h-series processors, which scale all the way up to eight cores, 16 threads, five gigahertz turbo. i mean, there is a ton
of performance here, and especially when you combine it with up to 128 gigs of ram, this will absolutely run rings around even a fairly modern workstation. it's certainly not an
apples-to-apples comparison. we put this creator pc side-by-side with this two-year-old workstation, and it is absolutely no contest. you really do get so much
more for a whole lot less. now, all that being said, if you need the xeon,
if you need the quadro, if you need the ecc memory, there's certainly advantages on the very high end
to these workstations, but i feel like the creator pc
is such a nice middle ground for the vast majority of people out there who are interested in doing
just a little bit more with their gaming laptops. oh, i shouldn't call it gaming anymore. i mean, creator pc is really
its own thing at this point. really, this all boils down
to something very simple. the creator pc is something
which has really languished for a while, right, and honestly, there's a huge credit to not only nvidia, but especially intel for really
revitalizing the category. this is a laptop that not too long ago would've been a completely
gaming-focused design, but now all you need to do
is just make a few changes, give you a better screen,
give you more memory, make a few things that'll
make my life much easier as a video editor, and
suddenly you have a system that can game, that can
stream, that can video edit, that can photo edit, pretty
much anything you need to do, these creator pcs are ready for it, and especially when you start looking at some of the crazier designs such as the asus zenbook pro duo as well as the actually
higher-end version of this, the conceptd 9. i mean, it gets really, really crazy, so the more that we can
see these things develop, the more that we can see
these things kind of evolve, the happier i will be, and of course, huge shout out to intel for
really providing the innovation to really give these pc companies a good reason why that
they should be targeting not just gamers but
creators at the same time.