- this is the largest slice
of pizza in the entire world. look how long it is! this pizza is literally six
feet and taller than carl. - my ego is shattered. - [joey] it just doesn't stop. it's still going, it's still going. it's so big. - and this is joey chestnut, the fastest competitive
eater in the entire world. - i'm hungry! - and not only does he
hold the world record for hot dogs eaten, but
he has so many more. here's a quick montage of it. (fast-paced rock music) he literally holds the world record for holding the most world records. this guy is insane. and before we eat' pounds of pizza, let's see how much chris,
chandler and i weigh. combined, me and the
boys weigh 537 pounds. we should be easily able to out-eat joey. - we're big boys! - he only weighs 229 pounds. - [chris] what? - well, i was a big mama! - mr. joey, here is your
world record slice of pizza. - i'm really hungry right
now and this looks good. - this is nine pounds. it's like you're eating chris' baby. - yeah, i'm... - [voiceover] bruh. (mr. beast laughs) - [chris] we're doing what now? - and this is our slice of pizza, boys. it is massive! - if i eat the crust, i'm gonna throw up. he's gonna demolish that whole thing. - we have two identical slices of pizza and me, chris and chandler
are gonna try to eat our slice before joey eats his. - woo, we're gonna win! - well, like i showed you
before, joey is a monster. he could probably out-eat
10 people if he wanted to. even if we are constantly
stuffing food in our mouth, i don't think we'll be
able to go as fast as him. - [chandler] no. - it doesn't make sense. - i agree, guys. (boys chuckle) - you might be thinking there is no way this one man right here can
out-eat us three grown men. this isn't any ordinary man. joey chestnut is a freak of nature. he is literally the best
eater in the entire world. it is now time to begin. joey, give us a countdown
from five and let's start. five. four. - [chandler] get ready boys, get ready. three.
- [chris] all right. two. - we cannot let him out-eat us. - [joey] one. eat!
- go! all right, what do we do? okay, all right, so he's
starting it off by cutting it. - what the freak is he doing? - this is as fast as i can eat. - he's literally beating us already. there's three of us. - i've almost got a slice now. - wait, so he's doing a foldy thing. - i think so. holy- - [chris] there's no
way i can do this, man. i'm already full. - that's disgusting. (pizza slams)
(boys chuckle) - oh my god! - it feels like i'm eating a rug. (swanky music) - he's eating way faster
than i thought he would. go give him a violation, i don't know. just go stop him. - you're not cutting it thoroughly. there's not enough cutting going on. i'm gonna need you to- - [voiceover] nope. - he's not listening to me. i don't think he knows i'm here. - and he's in the zone. he's like a great white shark. i'm not gonna lie, i don't
wanna swallow the food that's in my mouth. - it is much easier to take a bite and take a sip and eat it. - yeah, but it tastes so bad. (speedy pop music) - there's no way you're doing this. i'm about to barf, my
stomach feels so full. how are you still eating? honestly, i didn't consider that. - i know i'm a ref, but i'm here to bribe. how about 10 grand and
you stop for five minutes. but, i need you to acknowledge that you can ever hear me right now. because, i can't tell. i'm not gonna lie. - oh, that's a no. - that's the most ferocious no i've ever witnessed in my life. - he came into this
wanting to kick our butts and he's gonna kick our butts. - i'm gonna take this
away before he soils it. - so i just wanna remind
you, this is literally nine pounds of pizza. it's like eating 10 pizzas by yourself. words cannot express
how full i was feeling. i mean, you still got
quite a ways to go, joey. are you gonna be able to finish this? - i'm gonna finish it. - really? - you guys aren't gonna finish? - no way.
- you guys, you can't give up. no, we're doing it. - i don't see how you're gonna do this. (joey burps) you would think being a
competitive eater is fun, but this sucks. - yo, you guys gotta stop talking and eat. look at this man, he's almost done. - yo, i got the pizza sweats bad. i don't even really like pizza
that much, i'm not gonna lie. - same.
- i'm never eating pizza after this. - this is making me angry. i can't eat pizza like this. it's incorrect. - oh my goodness. look how much he's eaten. he has like two feet left. so his pizza is this long. we still have twice as
much pizza left as him. we're not even close. we're tagging you in,
we have four people now. - okay.
- eat away. - bro, you're gonna get sick. - all right, guys, let's
try to get a second burst. so let's try to catch up. - (groans) i think three bites. i don't even... (boys gag) - i'm gonna eat over the trashcan. - who would've thought
the world's best eater is really good at eating? i had no choice but to
bring in another helper. there's no way joey can
out-eat five people. tyler, come on in. - oh.
- thank you. i'm actually really hungry. - [mr. beast] tyler, do what joey's doing. - oh, no way.
- hey tyler, if you don't mind, could you not slobber over our pizza we have to eat. - [tyler] we're trying
our best, i promise. i really feel like i've eaten
more than everyone else. - there's more pizza on your hand than everybody else has eaten. - joey, more like slowy! (men groan) oh my god, dude, tareq, point this camera at the size of his stomach. he was skinny before and
now it's like out here. he has 10 pounds just chilling
in his stomach right now. he's literally about to finish. i've probably eaten 10% of what he's eaten and my eyes are watering. i'm crying in pain. i can honestly say this
challenge was harder than counting to 100,000. - i just wanna go home. - i'm gonna go poop. (farts) - he's not gonna come back. - [tareq] guess what's going
through your stomach right now? - pizza. - it's going down a bit slower
than i thought it would. but, i'm not looking as bad as them. - dude, we're trying. - i'm in pain. - this is tyler's friend, jackson. i'm tapping you in, go. jackson is bringing
the velocity we needed. - that was literally
completely in tyler's mouth. - he was doing so well, carl. his stomach has to be full soon. let's all kick it into hyper drive. now, i know this looks bad, all of us getting
out-eaten by joey chestnut, and honestly, i don't
know how to explain this. i guess there's a reason
this guy literally holds 50 world records for eating food. he's really good at it. boys, i brought even more help. head on in, dustin.
- dusty. - there's now seven of
us going up against joey. - [chris] and he's only
got that little much left. - whoa! if we manage to beat him,
i'll give you guys $100,000. - all right, bet. time to get 100 grand! woo! - i should've done that sooner. we might've won. - [tareq] hey jimmy, how do you feel? - i don't feel good. - for our safety, slow down. we're gonna die over here. - come on guys, finish it. (chris laughs) - go joey! go! - tyler's the only person to ever cheer for the opposite team. - hey, he's the winning team. - think about this, he had a
six foot giant slice of pizza and all that is left is
this few inches right here. guys, i hate to admit it
but i think we just lost. one final bite. oh my god. - it was rough, but i found a rhythm. kept using the water to get it down. - clearly. - [chris] oh, we gotta weigh him. we gotta weigh him.
- oh my gosh, yes. before we started, we weighed
him and he weighed 229. let's go see what he weighs now. - that was one of the hardest
challenges of my life. - step on the scale. let's see how much weigh you gained. no way!
- oh! - he weighs 250 pounds now! let me go grab something from the back. joey, step on the scale. 250 pounds. joey, you literally gained 21 pounds. - it was a hard challenge,
but it felt good knowing i was gonna finish it. towards when i got the second half, i was like, "oh, it's going down." and then, when you guys
kept adding more people- - yeah?
- it encouraged me. - really?
- oh yeah, that felt good. - you literally have 21
pounds of pizza in you. just how? how does that feel? - i feel kind of bloated, feel tired. - yeah?
- exhausted. it's gonna take some recovery time. before, we weighed 537
pounds as you see here and now we weigh 547. we put on 10 pounds, but we still lost. and to celebrate joey winning, i made him this pizza trophy. here you go.
- oh baby. - it might not be as
cool as all those belts and trophies you currently have, but i hope it means a lot. - it's one of the hardest trophies i've ever had to get. i've never had to work
this hard, but it was fun. - thanks for coming out.
- anytime, you guys. - now, if you wanna be
in a video like this in the future, hit the subscribe button because we're gonna start
flying in tons of subscribers to be in more videos. i'm not even joking. if you wanna be in a future
video, hit subscribe. joey is insane. see you later. [music] mr. beast 6,000 oh [music] [music] mr. beast 6,000 and you know his name [music] [music] he changed it once or twice [music] [music] but i think it's here to stay [music] (explosion booms)