i regularly make use of youbike here in taipei.   it is a simple, easy-to-use bike 
share that makes biking around taipei   as convenient as the mrt. i use it regularly 
to get to places while enjoying the outdoors. youbike would not work half as well 
as it does if the bikes sucked.   and luckily they do not. these bikes were 
provided by giant, taiwan's biggest bicycle brand. i do not know much about the bicycle industry, 
so giant's success and name recognition came as   a surprise to me. it is pretty cool that 
in the midst of a bunch of semiconductor   and electronics companies, one of taiwan's most 
well-known brands makes bicycles of all things. in this video, i want to profile 
taichung-based giant bicycle.   their beginnings, rise to prominence, 
and how they managed to make it from   being a white label manufacturer 
to a global brand of their own. the idea for giant bicycle came in 1972.   a number of friends and family (not sure how many, 
it seems like 8 or 10) at a reunion party pooled   together $100,000 usd to form a company so to 
explore entering the american bicycle market. in the 1950s, the taiwanese government closed its 
bicycle market to foreigners in order to nurture   its local manufacturing industry. a small group of 
companies sprouted to serve the domestic market.   taiwan's market was also small, 
about 40,000 bicycles a year. the government's foreign import ban 
gave this tiny market to domestic firms.   this encouraged local employment, which in 
of itself is not a bad thing to shoot for.   politicians want to create 
good jobs for their citizens. but production and innovation stagnated 
throughout the 60s. the domestic taiwanese   market was too small. all it can do is support a 
bunch of small bicycle makers just scraping by. the average bicycle industry company 
in taiwan in 1966 had 15.7 employees.   making it a small business. the value added for each of those employees was 
around 25,000 ntd a year. very low value, which is   in line with the tasks those workers do. things 
like basic maintenance and maybe some sales. furthermore, i have to say that the product 
was pretty terrible. one bicycle company ceo   remembered a sign on a us bike shop reading: "no 
sales or service for bicycles made in taiwan."   canada would ban taiwanese imports 
entirely for dumping practices. that would soon change. by 1981, 15 years 
later, that value add number climbed to 464,000   ntd per employee. a massive jump that reflects 
the change in taiwan's bicycle industry. giant and its 30 employees struggled to 
make money throughout these early years.   co-founder king liu was in 
charge of bending the metal,   while partner tony lo handled business and 
international communications as the ceo. to differentiate themselves, giant learned 
its production techniques from the japanese.   liu pushed the small company to constantly 
upgrade the quality of their products,   persuading their suppliers to 
adopt japanese industry standards.   this focus on quality would pay 
huge dividends in the coming years. the 1973 oil crisis would cause gas shortages 
around the country and trigger a huge surge   in demand for bicycles. the sudden rise in 
demand caught many domestic suppliers unawares   (not unlike what went on in 2020) and they 
looked to east asia to help meet demand. american   imports of the two-wheelers would increase by 
over three million units from 1970 to 1973. taiwan was in a good position to 
capture a large portion of those orders.   the industry made bicycles superior 
to those made in south korea.   but, with the japanese yen 
appreciating 20% against the us dollar   as a result of the plaza accords, at a 
price more affordable than japanese bikes. taiwanese bicycle exports in 1969 were 
basically nothing - 85,000 bicycle sets. by 1973, taiwan exported 1.3 
million sets. 1,300% growth. the number of taiwanese firms 
making bicycles exploded. there   were 279 taiwanese bicycle makers in 1971. by 1976, that same number was 446. i guess you can 
say that bicycles were the crypto of 1970s taiwan. giant grew well during this boom. but as companies 
rushed to meet demand, an oversupply situation   began to emerge within the market. and when 
the oil crisis receded somewhat in 1974,   there was a big pullback. exports fell from 
1.3 million in 1973 to 814,000 in 1975. the industry consolidated and companies merged. 
giant survived this shake-out by continuing to   focus on high quality and craftsmanship. but even 
by this point, the company was just one of many.   it needed its big break to lift 
it above the rest of the crowd. in the famous american movie "rocky",   a small time fighter named rocky 
balboa gets a once-in-a-lifetime   shot at the big time when he is picked to fight 
apollo creed, the world heavyweight champion. in this movie, giant is rocky balboa. and 
apollo creed is american bicycle maker schwinn. from 1945 to 1970 schwinn was the leading 
bicycle brand in the united states. arnold, schwinn & company was founded by 
engineer ignaz schwinn and businessman   adolph arnold in'95. schwinn had come to 
chicago from germany in'91 and had been a   manager for a bicycle factory. he struck out 
on his own and his bikes became successful. ignaz's son frank would take the company 
to new heights. a talented engineer, frank   pioneered balloon tire bicycles, far superior 
to the single tube tires prevalent at the time.   he also knew how to do business and 
introduced the schwinn lifetime guarantee,   which distinguished them from the competition. post-world war ii, schwinn was a pioneer in the 
bicycle industry, carving new ground in both the   marketing and product sides. they invested 
an immense amount on marketing their brand   directly to consumers. they were one of the first 
companies to use celebrities and television to   market their products. and they continued to make 
high quality bikes that appealed to its customers. schwinn was the unquestioned leader of 
the american market. but by the 1970s,   the company was not aging all that well. the 
company had missed the bmx and sport bike booms   that started in 1971 - partly due to a 
prior anti-trust suit in the late 50s. they faced stiff competition from europe 
(peugeot) and japan (bridgestone and   panasonic). and now they were lagging 
during this demand surge in the 70s.   the company needed a jolt to get back on track. ceo tony lo gained the first 
order from schwinn in 1976.   the american company had not intended to order 
bicycles from giant, but frank schwinn changed his   mind after noticing how well the company's steel 
tubes had been painted. it was a fateful decision. through the 1980s, schwinn became giant's biggest 
customer by a huge margin - taking some 75% of   total production. these white-label sales would 
crowned giant as taiwan's biggest bicycle company.   big fish in a small pond, but still very nice. but there were strategic long-term concerns. 
schwinn dictated all of giant's product and r&d   decisions. furthermore, they controlled access to   the customer and owned the brand 
name those customers recognized. in other words, they had giant by the balls. 
schwinn would stay with giant for only as long   as they can provide the lowest costs. such a 
low cost strategy can only last for so long. king liu decided that giant needed an escape 
valve to alleviate the stress of being so reliant   on another company. in 1981, they launched the 
taiwan giant sales company in the central city   of taichung. the goal was to establish and learn 
how to sell the giant brand directly to consumers. customer and manufacturer hurdled towards a 
divorce. the people at schwinn were not stupid.   they knew that their money was nurturing a 
future competitor. despite the giant brand   at first being taiwan-only, it would not 
take much to take the playbook worldwide. giant knowing that schwinn knew 
this caused them to push harder to   learn how to build a brand before it is too late. then in 1985 it happened. schwinn 
severed its relationship with giant   and transferred its production to a china-based 
joint-venture company. having lost those orders,   giant found itself cycling against the 
clock to open a flurry of overseas branches: the netherlands first in 1986, then the us in 
1987, japan 1989, australia/canada in 1991. to catch up on the r&d side, giant 
enlisted the help of the government.   they teamed up with the material research 
laboratories in taiwan's industrial technology   research institute (famous for spinning out tsmc) 
to commercialize new materials like carbon fiber,   aluminum and steel alloys 
for use in bicycle frames. giant was one of the first companies 
to commercialize the use of chrome moly   in bicycle frames. this steel alloy is 
very strong and resistant to corrosion,   superior to the steel tube 
bicycles available at the time. in 1988, giant would also be one of the first 
companies to commercialize a carbon fiber frame   bicycle - selling a million units annually. 
fueled by these public-private partnerships,   giant could confidently say 
that they made good products. getting other people to buy the product though,   turned out to be much more 
challenging than actually making it. going out there with their own brand, giant 
quickly faced substantial challenges in marketing   their products. it is something that a lot of 
companies of their type and background face. like asus computer (profiled in another 
video of mine), giant started off as an   original equipment manufacturer. they 
made products for other brands to sell.   it allowed them to focus on manufacturing 
the best thing that they possibly can. but now suddenly they have to make people 
of cultures they're unfamiliar with   buy those products. it took time for giant to make that adjustment, 
especially in the competitive american market.   the american subsidiary lost money for 
13 years as king liu struggled to adapt   to customers' expectations and the nuances 
of sports marketing in the united states. things started to turn around after 
the company began hiring executives   like former schwinn exec skip hess - who led giant 
usa from $30 million to $100 million in revenue. the japanese subsidiary went nowhere 
for 9 years until giant purchased 30%   of japanese firm hodaka in 1998. transitioning from a "manufacturing-first" 
mindset to a "manufacturing+brand" mindset   is challenging and it is no surprise 
that few companies have managed to do it.   nike first started off with the brand 
- selling japanese-made shoes - and   then moved into manufacturing. they 
held the customer relationship first,   before expanding. that has its own challenges, 
but my opinion is that it is easier. asus made the transition too, but had to jettison 
its manufacturing operations in the process.   giant is fortunate that it was able to make 
its transition without needing to do the same. i want to take some time to share something about   this channel. don't worry - 
it is relevant to this topic. when i started this channel, i kind 
of thought the same thing as giant   did when they began marketing their own brand 
overseas. i thought that if i made the best,   most knowledgable video that i could 
then the viewers would come on their own. after all, apple and other silicon valley 
companies like it are always obsessing over the   product. product. product. product. so make 
the best product and the rest handles itself. but over time, i learned that i had to 
think about the brand and marketing too.   often times from the very start of the "product 
development" process. why people should care?   if i am not clear on that throughout my video, i 
risk making the work i put into it be for naught. giant went through the same 
process i am going through today.   though they've done it with far more success 
than i have. they are still doing well today   and are one of the larger manufacturers in the 
space. the story is still not finished with them. the pandemic has created new 
opportunities for the biking   industry. biking is more accessible 
to more people than ever before.   there are more biking enthusiasts now 
than have been in a very long time. normally this should be good. but giant is 
constantly challenged by up and comers from china,   southeast asia and beyond. they've gone 
pretty far, but the journey continues.