- this is the greatest sleeper
pc that we have ever made. it's fast, in fact, it's so fast, it's actually thermodynamically impossible in such a tiny case. that is unless, ah, yes, meet bunta, an assuming sleeper with a
lot going on down below wink, wink, nudge, nudge. know what i mean? we're about to show you how she's built and thanks "seasonic" for
sponsoring this video. (upbeat music) first things first, i
wanna spoil the surprise. bunta here is going to be
getting a water cooling enigma, that's right? (man laughs) the way we're planning
to cool this sleeper pc, because the truth is as beautiful as our sony vio pcv rs 100 enclosure is, there just isn't enough room for the kind of cooling that we're gonna
need for an rtx 30 90, and a rise in the better
be a 59 50 x, 16 core. heck freaking yeah. so punta is gonna get a little coolant injection in the butt and it might not end up being in the butt. - you introduced more
than i was expecting. - oh, because i pay
attention in our meetings. - what you weren't even in this meeting. (men laugh) - no, i have a meeting
with you about the... (beep) - well, we got a lot
of water cooling stuff, a lot more water cooling
stuff than i asked for. so we need to come up
with a bit of a plan. like i have a basic theme. i want this to be kind
of like trueno looking, but yeah, we have a lot
of water cooling stuff. - for real though. why are there eight full bottles? - i have no clue. i didn't ask for any of this. - oh wait. there's more than eight. oh my god. there's so many what even... i figured it out. there's someone there who
actually watches our videos. so this is probably enough for us to have no excuses to not
use a fill bottle anymore. - i guess so, but then whenever we're going to plug ltt store.com water bottles. - yeah. sorry. alpha cool. - yeah it's a p c i e riser kit. - sure. - is it that for this? - no. - check this out. if we do a vertical gpu mount, right? we actually get all of this
space here for gpu mounting, and then we can do our water cool entry points at the back
here, the bottom of the back. and then it can basically come straight up into the back of the gpu,
straight up to the cpu, super clean and then come
right back down there. - oh, okay. i like that. - yeah like that could be sick. man, we could probably even do the pump and reservoir internally too, which would make filling it a lot easier. - 30 90 r o g stricks. oh, that poor graphics
cart is finally going to get a proper gpu block. if it can fit, this going right in there would be sweet. - that would be amazing. how on earth would we fill it? - that's a problem. - okay hold on, i got a pitch for you. we take up big fat drill bit. we go straight through the optical drives and we run a tube to this and we put a stop fitting. - okay. i can dig it. - yeah, this is an odd spot
for these fittings here. - yeah, i really wish they had it so that you just came
off of this into this. - so we're gonna go up into here, what fricking out over to here now to mr. tivy, your thoughts on the. - i think that's what
you call a bad design. (men laughing) - thanks mr. tivy. - let's just get the old crap outta here. get some space for our new components. i could probably just rip
this off and it will be fine, but i'm really scared that i'm just gonna break all the clips. this whole case is just riveted together. there's, no real way to repair it without destroying it first. oh, excellent. does this have light
piping for the vio logo? i wonder if we can replace this right here with an r g b l e d. don't need that again. (hammer clangour) what? we need to get
rid of the cage anyway, so i guess they're coming out together. (drill machine buzzing) there we go. screw you mr. drive,
going back to free hick. (men laughing) this is the front io that
we were supposed to use in the old wood pc, might be perfect for this. you'll need a bit of massaging and we don't need a power button. that's gonna work great. for the motherboard, we're going with the
"crosshair eight impact" mostly because it's the largest amd board that i could fit in this
case that we had on hand, our cpu is the rise of 9 59 50 x. can we still say it's
the best cpu in existence now that the 12 900 k is out? (alex laughs) my thoughts exactly david , for ram we're going with
crucial ballistics max. these are each 16, gigabyte sticks, 4,000 mega transfers per second, cl'. wish i hadn't brought linus over, this would be so much easier if we didn't have to deal
with this stupid thing. i do agree it's gonna look awesome, but this is gonna be a pain in the butt. if you haven't watched
our wish water cooled pc, you absolutely should. one thing to note in that video, the pump seem to be working fine. after two, three hours of use, it started sounding like
gravel in a garburator, it's terrible. because this is the gpu that
we shunt moded and volt moded we have these headers
sticking off of the back that allow us to access the i two c. now i could just remove those headers, but i want to keep them there. and we can probably overcloak
the balls out of this thing. once it's all set up with the 480 rad. so instead, i'm very sorry "alpha cool." we're drilling a couple
holes in their back plate. fortunately, i already
have drilled some holes in the stock air cooler
back plate for this card. so i can just pick those up, put them onto this and
we should be good to go. (drilling machine growling) heck yeah, look at that. we now have easy access to those. this is gonna be one fast gpu. oh, there we go water blocks on. and the back plates on
this thing looks sweet. this is going to be such
a fast graphics card. wow, it's kind of tight. look at the clearance on
this gpu right now though. (grinder buzzing) yeah, it looks good to me. it needs a tiny bit of cleanup,
but this is gonna work. (upbeat music) - is it test fit time? - it's getting close, i have
the loop basically planned out, but it was a huge pain in the butt. the biggest problem was just
that everything's really close. - yeah. i see. wow, this doesn't not really fit in there. - yeah the problem is that if we don't use the vertical mount, it also doesn't really fit in there. - yeah. - like we have to cut away the back plate. and probably lose this. - yeah, okay. - pretty much all of our
problems are being caused by the back play cooling. without that, it would
be much, much easier. - this is genius level back
plate fitting placement, design work here. (linus laughs) - and so when the pump is this way, you might think would make sense. - uh huh yeah. - it's too close to both of these, and doesn't work. so you flip it around like that, so it comes sort of across, down the back. - yeah. - and then up into here, - and then straight across to here. - no into there. - oh, into here - that one's gonna suck. it's gonna be a weird little bendy thing. - okay, oh my god you didn't. why are you so determined to
keep the shunt mod on here? it doesn't even like work properly. - no, that's for the voltage controller, we can up the voltage. (grinder buzzing) (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) - our last couple sleepers, we haven't really painted
them because you know, you want them just look
like a crappy old pc. this one though is going to
look like the original sleeper. look at that david, nicholas made up the design and he is gonna walk you through how he's going to paint it like that. - first, we figured out a scale for the wonderful ltt
store.com in katakana. we figured out, this size
will be the best on the side, but we're gonna paint this
chassis, nice mat black. the front is gonna have the black and white stripes. then yeah, we're just
gonna take it over here into our dirty spray booth
and spray everything. (upbeat music) so see how shiny this is, this is not good for paint. one is dirty. two, paint doesn't have
anything to grab onto. so we need to go through scuff it with 100 or 150 grit sandpaper. and that'll give enough
grab for the paint. - is this the (indistinct)
we're just gonna sand it. - yes. - this is the tiny
little desk we're using? - yeah, serge built it yesterday. it's a great little desk. - all right, good job serge. - it does need these to be trimmed. - yeah, that's fine. that's minor. - yeah. - are we gonna go with like, oh, you know what we should use? that lg one by one monitor or whatever. - why? because it's sleeper,
but it's modern, right? - no, we should just use a good monitor. - it would match the aesthetic though. and then we use like a model m so it's stealthly an
awesome keyboard, you know? - or we could just use a good monitor. - ah. - this goes in here somewhere,
somewhere like that. - okay, oh it's gonna have a leg warmer. - oh yeah it will. - how about there? right? - i was thinking we'd mark it, but sure. (drill buzzing) - okay. (drill continue buzzing) i see. oh, perfect. (drill buzzing) there we go. - linus didn't think i'd take the time to properly 3d prints some parts, but he forgot one key thing. i have a fancy new 3d printer. this is the hs three from pantheon design and it is freaking fast. the head experience is
one g of acceleration making this prusarate here,
look like it is standing still. it is still in beta and quite finicky, but get subscribed because we're gonna get new print heads soon that should fix most of those issues. and then we're gonna make
a full video on this thing. oh, and it's printing this fast while using carbon reinforced petg, freaking crazy. (upbeat music) oh, these look awesome. look at that bracket, that is very sturdy. wonder if my measurements
for this guy are correct, let's go check. our first 3d printed part is on and now we're going to
attach the radiator. the main reason why i'm
doing these right now is because it's friday and we need to finish this project today. and this is the sort of fiddly crap that can blow up our entire project. if you do it when you're in
a rush at the end of the day. - after spending way
too much time painting, then re-masking using the
cry cut to stencil this out. instead of by hand, my hands are steady, but not that steady. i think it's time for us to do paint. (sprayer whooshing) (upbeat music) (sprayer continue whooshing) - [alex] so you want to pull
it off when it's still as wet instead of a bit dryer. - we don't want to peel
the paint with the tape. so it's not fully dry,
but it's not very wet. we can touch it. - [alex] that's a crispy line. - [david] frog tape for the wind. - i'm really happy with this mound. my other plan was to just grab
some of the crappy l brackets from over there and just send it. i'm glad i did it the right way. look at this, i can probably
pick up the whole table. - [david] oh don't do it. (alex laughs) - from here, putting the pc together, shouldn't be too difficult. the thing that's going to make
or break this is if i forget to do something that's hidden. like for instance, if i forget to put an
ssd in the mother board, the gpu and a whole bunch of other things, like all the water cooling
tubing will need to come out front io is just gonna get
attached with some popper vents. just need to line it up and
send it with the screwdriver should be fun. (drill buzzing) for storage, we're going with the four terabites of
"sabrent rocket four." so this is a pci gen four ssd,
and it should be super fast. it also is going into this dim dot two, which is kind of weird, but also makes sense because it allows you
to have two m dot twos and also some extra fans
and rgb without taking up too much space on this already
incredibly small board, the dim dot two sticks out a lot further than i was expecting. so hopefully it doesn't
hit our gpu back plate, if it does, it's not a huge deal, we can just remove the audio, but it does suck not to
have front panel audio. nope, fine. totally good. i was really hoping i could just stash these cables down like that, but the pump interferes
with it, unfortunately. so it's gonna have to go
like up in here somewhere. it's gonna look nasty. (upbeat music) all the front panel stuff is on. now these leds right here
are from an arduino kit because i need to figure out the polarity of the ones that we had, plugged it into this power supply, and immediately just blew it up, it was like one and a half volts. (man laughs) anyway, these should work just fine. right here though, i want to stick a single r g b l e d. and it should, with the light
piping light up this vio logo. and it's gonna look sweet. we're now at the point where
tubes are about to go in and when they go in,
nothing else can leave. so for instance, i need to do this tube from
the back of the reservoir, out down to the radiator. and once that's in, i can no longer access that tube or any of the front io stuff, 'cause gonna be totally
blocked by the reservoir. i know we've talked about
all of the horrible stuff that we've done to our gpu a couple times, but every single time we've used it, this power supply's also been in there. it's a px 1300 wall from "seasonic." they sponsored this video and yeah, it survived the shunt mods survived wish water cooling. it's gonna survive this and
it has 12 year warranty. so if it doesn't, you can
just give them a call. one thing we're going to do that i normally wouldn't recommend is disable hybrid mode so that when it's on allows for this fan to
turn completely off, we don't want that though, because i'm going to just
install another fan here. that's an intake and this fan's
going to be our only outtake exhaust, it takes up a lot of room. (man laughs) this is a massive power
supply for this case. i guess it's our last bit. the gpu is finally going to go in. now this is gonna be very difficult. so we need to, first of all,
connect our pci express cable. that's easy. but then as it goes in, we need to connect two
tubes simultaneously. and at the same time, not move it around too much because i am double-sided
taping it to the bottom. so once it's in, it can't move. it just doesn't quite want to grab piece of crap. oh, i think we need to
go out and buy back in. i can't get these fittings to work out. ha ha ha. that is without a doubt, the most difficult gpu to install that i've ever experienced. just want to test to make sure that there's no leaks in this. it would be, i don't need to tell
you how bad it would be. it would be very bad. all right. we're right at one bar. let's leave it for a minute. it's not moving. we're good. (upbeat music) it's finally time to fill it. and i guess david, we have to use one of "alpha
cool" ces that they sent. - [david] of course. - we got so many. - think one of these is good. probably should use two. - [david] i think yeah, the other one. - yeah, can dual wield them? - [david] oh, not that one, the other one. - oh okay. this one. - [david] yeah, that one. - oh, okay. well that's not a good first time you. - [david] plug it in, it might be better. - yeah, that's, no we need to do that. thank you david. (david laughs) - [david] oh. - oh, that's a lot of rgb. i don't see any leaks immediately. not that i'm concerned. we already did leak test it. it isn't posting, which is fine. i'm gonna update the bios,
install, windows and stuff. i'll see you in probably like
four hours when it's ready. - a few moments later. - well, bad news. i have updated the bios and i'll just turn it on here to show you. nothing happens. we can leave it here for a couple minutes, but i'm not gonna get a display out. and i'm almost sure that i know why i've confirmed that we have a pci gen
three riser cable for this, and it's a pci gen for
gpu and motherboard. i foresaw this being a problem, but in the past it hasn't
really been a problem. so you can just hop in the
bios, change it in there. and it's fine. problem is amd are stupid and don't give you integrated graphics. so i can't do that. which means we have to
pull all of this out and drain the loop. i have a terrible idea though, that might make my life
a little bit easier. it involves this gt 730. the only time it's ever
gonna be good for something. my thought is that if i
can move this gpu a bit and get this out, i should be able to plug in our gt 730. use that to switch the bios. oh, this is double-sided taped in. geez. there's more water in the computer. that's not great. i don't see anything that's leaking, which means it's probably the
gpu back plate, either way, this isn't working and i need
to pull the whole thing apart. so that sucks. oh wow. there's a log. look at that. - [david] uh oh. - that must be from the pump. i'll see you in a day when
this is working again. (upbeat music) holy crap it's working. it was not very easy. i took the whole gpu out, replaced the riser cable, reinstall it. it wasn't quite as hard as last time 'cause i used a bunch
of lube on the fittings and then kind of just slotted in instead of like being very difficult, always used lube very important. then i got it to work for a
bit and then it stopped working and i troubleshoot it for about two hours. i fixed it by blowing
compressed air in it. i have no clue why it works now. anyway, i think it looks fricking sweet. this thing's amazing. big moment here we finally
get to install this. oh, this is easily my favorite
sleeper we've ever are done. it's been margaret for such a long time. 'cause that thing was a beast, but punta takes the cake for sure. - [david] oh yeah, that's good looking. - damn. (upbeat music) - wow, that rtx 30 90 is running
at over 800 watts, but how? - should be burning up, but cpu temps have
barely broken 40 degrees. - [man] amazing, it gives me goosebumps a new perfect example of a sleeper pc. (upbeat music continues) - wow, that is not very good. it looks too awesome. - [alex] what? - it's not sleeperly. it looks fricking insane. - this is the original sleeper linus. - i love it. that's so cool. you made the bio rgb. oh man. it looks too legit. you goofed, it's too good. - oh, and speaking of legit, do you know what actually works for once? - the front front io? - yeah. - you put type c on it. - [alex] yeah. - you put type c on it. - alex, this may be the worst
sleeper you've ever built, (alex laughs) but it's the best computer. and however i might have felt
about those fit positionings on the back plate, this
looks absolutely incredible. how's cooling performance? i see you're using the
92 mil as an intake. do we have any exhaust? - [alex] the power supply. - oh. - [alex] it's not in hybrid mode anymore. so the fan's going. - got it. and then i guess you're really
pulling most of the heat out to here with the quad 120
millimeter alpha cool radiator. wow, you did a great
job with this bracket. that's not as amazing, but. - [alex] yeah, i was hoping we'd shoot this from the other direction. so you wouldn't see that. - yeah. we didn't. (alex and linus laugh) - now you did request
the fans point that way. i don't know how i feel
about the fanny fan, but. - yeah, it doesn't really warm you, it's such a big radiator that the air's blowing
is not really that warm. it's more distracting. - yes. - i may have found a slight oversight. did you ever actually try to plug anything into
these usb ports, alex? - no. - it doesn't fit. oh, well you know what? maybe we'll get it in there. - [alex] yeah, i never tested
it with the front panel on. - yep. that's okay. my crotch is cooled. (alex laughs) when those fans kick in it's
like got like a whooshing. - [alex] yeah, it's an
interesting feeling. - yeah. - [alex] initial d kind of car. - initial d, what's an initial d? - it's the anime that
the sleeper is based on. - i mean it's black and white. okay, so it's this one here? - [alex] go for that one. - [linus] ooh, that's pretty cool. whoa, nelly. i am all over the place here boys. i'm in fifth and i'm all over the place. what even is this? it's like i'm on ice. this is ridiculous. - woo. (linus laughs) - oh my goodness. woo. - this is ridiculous. i am doing donuts and forth. that's just wrong. - [alex] how's that wrong? that's awesome. - [linus] do the wheels even
have a direction that they go? - [alex] while you control your steering with the right trigger. - and i control this
message from our sponsor. - it's "seasonic." - oh yeah, it's sponsored by "seasonic." - well that's awesome "seasonic." they make great power supplies. they're quiet. you can configure them with or without their zero fan hybrid fan mode. they have fantastic warranties. this particular one
has a 12 year warranty. it could actually last
longer than your car. they got fully modular power
supplies, super efficient ones. what more could you want? check'em out at the link down below. thank you "seasonic" for
sponsoring this video. they sponsor lots of cool
projects around here. good people. good people, good power supplies. what more can you ask for? (upbeat music) - this is a good tune you're just bad. - oh, i have no doubt. no doubt.