- hey guys, this is austin and this is the brand new audi e-tron. now, audi was awesome enough to sponsor our trip out here to san
francisco for the launch event and i've got to say i want one. like, i really, really want one. the e-tron brand has been around
for a couple of years now, primarily on the a3 e-tron. it's a cool car, but
it is a plug-in hybrid whereas this is fully electric. something i really appreciate
about the e-tron is that it actually doesn't look ugly. now, that might sound like
a backhanded compliment, but a lot of electric cars straight up do look like science projects. this looks like a classic audi with a little bit of an electric flair. one of the easiest ways to spot that this is an e-tron
and not a standard audi is going to be with the grill. now, it looks similar, but
the main difference here is that it actually isn't a full grill. so in fact, this is the only area that will actually open
up and that's purely based on how you need to cool the battery or stuff like the air conditioning. when you're on the freeway,
it can all close up, and this is going to be fully aerodynamic. take a look inside the e-tron, what you're going to find is something that is very much classic audi but with a lot of nice tech touches. so you get all kinds of
information up on here. for example, you can get a giant
high-resolution google map, or you can get some more
of the performance data, some more of the economy stuff, as, of course, you're
driving an electric vehicle and you want to be able to see how efficiently you're driving. there's a bunch of different things that you can do with virtual cockpit. but that, my friends,
is just the beginning. you also have two additional screens here in the center console. this is going to be the main display. it works for things like your navigation and it does have this nice
little haptic touch feature, which is shared with
not only this display, but also the one in the backseat. this is where you're going to do primarily most of the
stuff in the vehicle. you can pull up like
car play, your settings, whatever you want to do, and below that is where you can control all of the different climate control stuff and a couple of other settings. so if i want, i can say,
just turn up the fan, can set the dual zone climate control. or you can do a couple of other things, like, say, open your garage door or turn off the screens altogether. unfortunately, we're
not actually connected to the internet right now but if we were, i could show you that alexa
is built into the e-tron. now, this is a new partnership with amazon and it's the full version of alexa, which is using lte to be able to ask it, well, pretty much anything you want. so in theory, you can
say on your way home, hey, alexa, start my garage door opener? something really cool
that's sadly not coming to the us is the virtual mirror. now, right now, it's going
to be exclusive to europe mostly because of the regulations here, but essentially it replaces the standard mirrors with cameras. now, what this means is that not only is it going to help with aerodynamics, but this little section
right here is going to be replaced with an oled display, which will then show you what's going to be going on behind you. on top of that, it will
even adjust the view based on how quickly you're driving. so, say you might see a
little bit of a wider view on the freeway or a little
bit of a tighter view when you're on a side street
or whatever the case is. but it's going to be fully adjustable and it's a fricking camera and a screen in your side mirror thing. i want it. the star of the show here is definitely the electric powertrain. now, you actually can kind
of see this from the outside. so underneath the floor of the cabin is going to be the full 95 watt hour cell. there is a lot of engineering that goes into that battery cell. so on top of being about
the largest capacity that you can get on any
electric vehicle right now, there's going to be a lot of safety and, importantly, a lot of cooling inside. so the entire bottom of the battery is all going to be liquid-pooled
and on top of that, this crash structure around
it is hugely important because, you know, if
someone hits your car, you don't want your
batteries to be impacted. so not only is there is going to be an actual crash structure
on the side of the cell, but each individual battery cell, there are going to be
36 of them that take up the actual battery space, they're all going to be
individually protected with a very strong steel frame. there's not a final us
range number available for the e-tron yet since
it won't be going on sale until next year but based
on the european cycle, you should expect 200
plus miles on a charge. and that combined with
the ultra fast charging should mean that, well, i don't care, that's fine, that's plenty for me. the e-tron will charge
up to 150 kilowatts. now, as far as i know,
that's about the quickest electric vehicle car that you can find. at a full 150 kilowatt hour charge, what you can do, is you can get this thing from 0% to 80% in 30 minutes. the e-tron is powered by
a pair of electric motors, one on the rear axle, one on the front. now, in addition to giving you the full audi quattro
experience of all wheel drive, you're going to be getting
some pretty decent power. so the finalized figures aren't
in just yet here in the us, but you should expect somewhere in the neighborhood of
350 to 400 horsepower. and importantly, since it
is an electric vehicle, you're going to have a lot of torque and it's going to be instant. there's also a boost mode on board. so if you want just a
little bit of extra power, or say you're trying to
outrun marquez or something, not that i would ever
do that in an e-tron, then there's actually
going to be a little bit of extra power for a few seconds, which you can engage either by
putting the car in sport mode or if you really floor the throttle, there's actually a button on
the backside of the pedal, which will then give you just a little bit of extra juice for a few seconds. even though it's an electric vehicle, you're not giving up
a lot of practicality. so this has standard air suspension, which you can see is currently
lowering all the way down. you have a couple inches of play, whether you want to go off road or you want to go into dynamic mode, which is the fun mode. you should drive it in fun mode. and if you really want
to go crazy with it, this can actually tow up to 4,000 pounds if you get the tow package, which i just kind of want to try because, you know, an
electric car that's fast, and roomy, and can tow? i'm just really trying
to sell my fiance on this right now so just between
us, just roll with it, okay? what really impresses
me with the e-tron is that it feels like it is the full package. sure, you're getting an electric vehicle, but it's also a luxurious audi with all the bells and whistles and, importantly, all the functionality
that you would expect. i was kind of surprised to say this, but i'm glad that audi really
sponsored our trip out here, because i legitimately want an e-tron.