- what if the truth destroys our economy? this video will prove the earth is flat. no joke. 100% serious. we are currently in north carolina, and i'm going to fly to hawaii, while my friends simultaneously
fly to botswana, africa, a.k.a. the other side of the earth. once we are on exact
opposite sides of the world, we have a test we want to perform. if this test fails, the earth is flat. i promise. so i'm waiting to board my flight, and i'm actually pretty nervous. what if the pilot isn't paying attention and accidentally flies
off the side of the earth? the government says people
die in shark attacks, but we both know sharks are not real. it's clearly just people
that were on a plane that flew off the side of the earth, and then they just needed a coverup. 57% of you don't think it's flat. "nah it's a cube" for those of you people that don't know, the cube theory was debunked in 1920. some crazy nut jobs still believe in it, but obviously they're insane. it's clearly flat. here's all the proof you need. fortnite is flat, which means our earth is flat, duh. fortnite wouldn't be wrong. what you're looking at right
now is a bunch of clouds. you may not know this, but clouds are actually
made by the government to disguise the fact
that the world is flat. think about it. if it wasn't for these clouds, you'd be able to see to
the edge of the earth. that would ruin everything. - we made it, guys. - we almost were late. is the earth round or flat? - flat. - if you put water on
earth, it would fly off. - all right, so we just heard
that our flight got delayed because of a "ground stop", but this will not stop us. is there any chance we're gonna like fall off
the edge of the earth? - no, don't say that. - all right, let's call tyler and see what they're up to. - hello? - hey, are you ready to
prove the earth is flat? - dude, you have no idea how ready we are. i think this is gonna
be the proudest moment of my entire life. - we're gonna disprove all our teachers. all right, i'm t minus 20 hours away. 20 hours till the world gets woke. - all right. we made
it in new york safely. we're pretty excited
about going to africa. - earth is flat, right? - no.
- you don't know? - do you know if the
earth is round or flat? - is the earth round or flat? - it's round.
- round? - what? - is the earth round or flat? - this pizza? - no, no, the earth. - flat.
- exactly. okay, good. he got it right. if you look closely, this is the strongest magnet
on the face of the earth. and i actually got my hands on one. - so i arrived in hawaii
a little bit early. and while i'm waiting for
tyler to land in africa, i wanna prove the world isn't a donut. i know it's crazy and
might seem hard to believe, but some people think
the earth is a donut, and we're gonna prove that wrong. - hey, what's up, man? - i need you to fly to illinois and help me test and see
if the world's a donut. - a donut? yeah, that sounds- yeah. - yeah? all right. let me know when you land in,
like what, a day or whatever? - yeah. it'll take me
about a day to get there, but yeah, i'll be there probably like... tomorrow sound good? - yeah. tomorrow works. all right. call me when you get there. i'm currently right here. i'm gonna have chris fly over to here and then he's gonna put a magnet down, i'm gonna put a magnet down, and if they zip to each
other, the earth's a donut. if they don't zip to each
other, this image is fake. - so i'm going on a flight to illinois. - so i think they found that we have the strongest
magnets in the world and it might have set
off some kind of alarm. - so we turned off the magnet real quick and made the alarm go off. so we'll turn it back on
when we get to africa. made it. made it through the doors. this is outrageous. i just got on this plane. they give these away
for free for everyone. you just put 'em over. now you can't see anything. the government literally uses
these small little blindfolds to shield your eyes. it's disgusting. so the flight attendants made
us put down all the windows just so we couldn't see outside because it's quote unquote "bright," when in reality, we probably
would see the end of the earth. - so while we're waiting
for them to land in africa, i just wanna explain the
science behind a flat earth. a lot of you were wrongly indoctrinated, and i just wanna explain things to you. you see, gravity isn't real. earth is just always moving up. now it may have looked like
gravity pulled that ball down, but what actually happened
is the ball sat in the air, and earth came up and met it. for real, guys, if the earth was spinning
at 2,000 miles an hour, don't you think we would just fall off? obviously, the earth is flat, because if you spinned at
2000 miles an hour while flat, you don't... even i don't know what i'm saying. another theory that i know
a lot of you are fans of is the cat theory. and i just wanna say,
this is obviously fake. i mean, cats can't breathe in space. i know cats are sometimes this big, like, you know, the size of planets, but just thought i'd point that out 'cause i know a lot of you
believe in the cat theory. but just because i don't
believe in the cat theory, doesn't mean i don't think the
turtle theory is plausible. obviously, i'm not stupid. i realize turtles can breathe in space. my only issue with the turtle theory is i just have a hard
time believing, you know, turtles can move that fast through space. i'm not saying it's not possible. i'm not blasphemous. i just have a hard time believing it. this right here is what earth looks like. according to my calculations, they should be arriving in
africa in about five seconds. i'm so excited. like i've waited my whole life to expose the lies of the world. - chandler, what are you doing? - i'm flossing in africa. - i don't know how else to explain this, but we just walked out of the airport. we walked to this sign. we are in the middle
of botswana right now. after lots of research and experimenting, we knew that this was the exact location that we need to put this magnet for it to go through the ground. if the earth is round. now all we do is wait for jim to call, put his magnet down, and see what happens. hey, what's up, jim? - all right. tyler, are you in africa on the exact other side of the world? - yes, i am. - are you in possession of the most powerful magnet in the world? there are only two of these magnets. i have one, but you have the other. correct?
- absolutely. - good. honestly, i have no idea how we got these through airport security. if we wanted to, we could use these to
pull the moon towards us. that's how powerful they are. all right. can you please place your
magnet on the ground? - i am re-placing my magnet on the ground. - his magnet is on the ground. and please confirm your location. - my location is right in
front of the gaborone sign in botswana. - all right. perfect. that's exactly where i wanted you. you wanna know where my location is? - i would love to. - hawaii. all right, let's do this. i need to be careful. this magnet's super powerful. - don't lose your finger. - wait, do you have ice? like if this magnet takes
my finger through the earth, will you be able to put my finger on ice so i can get it reattached? - absolutely. the airport's right here. i will sprint there just to
get you ice for your finger. - here we go. tyler, i'm doing it. - all right, give a countdown. - 3... 2... 1. it's there. maybe it just needs a second or two to get zipped through the earth. - maybe you gotta move it. move it to the right a couple inches. i bet that's the problem. - yeah, you're right. all right. let me move mine to the right. which means you need to move yours to the left a couple inches. i moved mine to the right. nothing's hap- here, you know what? i brought a calculator with me. let me do some calculations. yes. okay. huh. okay. i might be in the wrong spot. let me go try this other spot outside. just in case there's a fluke, i moved to a new spot. all right. is your magnet on the ground? - yup. - so i might have been a little bit off on the longitude and latitude and i wanna make sure 100% that what i'm putting out there is true, because this could
literally change the world. i'm in a completely new spot. we're gonna put the magnet on the ground. all right. tyler, is your magnet still on the ground? - yes, it is. - he said his is still on the ground. and also, the magnet is not sticking. as you guys can clearly see, it is not getting sucked
through the earth, which further proves my point. the earth is not round. not once, but twice my theory held up. what more proof do you need? tyler. do you realize what we just did? - i think i do. - we just proved the earth is flat. i don't even know if we
should release this footage. like a lot of the world's
revenue comes from making globes. what are they gonna do now? no one likes flat maps. - a lot is an understatement. most of the world revenue
comes from globes. - man.
- i don't- i don't know. is this something that
would be smart to share? - what if the truth destroys our economy? did you ever think about that? - why were we put in charge
with this difficult task? - i know. why didn't one of you guys
prove the earth was flat? why are we having to decide
the fate of humanity? either you guys believe lies
or we kill the world's economy. - dude, it's gonna start world war iii. - it will. we just have the fate of
the world in our hands then. i don't know. i need some time to think on this. you wanna know what i'm
most disappointed about? - tell me, jim. tell me. - i bought some bread, and i was really excited to
make the world a sandwich. but if the world's not round, and he lays a piece of bread
and i lay a piece of bread, it's not a sandwich. it's just a flat earth
with two pieces of bread. i'm so annoyed. - technically, if the world wasn't flat, this would make a sandwich
and make a pretty cool video. but it means nothing now. - tyler, here's the
thing that blows my mind. these guys are so stupid that they probably think they're living on a sandwich right now, but the world's not a globe. - now the question is, do
we share that with them? will they be able to
fathom this phenomenon? - well, to be fair, there's one other theory
we have to disprove. the world could still be a donut. so do not panic yet. i need to confirm with chris
the world isn't a donut, 'cause there's a circle in the middle. you're on the other side of
the circle in the middle. whereas me and chris are
on the same little plane, just he's on the other side of it. - let me try something. if the earth is a donut, it would probably taste good, right? - it would. you should
try eating some dirt. - it doesn't taste very good. - it doesn't? you're telling me the earth
doesn't taste like a donut? - no, not at all. it tastes disgusting. - but to be fair, this
donut is really, really old. like it might have just gone bad. - oh, that- okay, well that makes sense. it did taste like a really,
really, really old donut. - exactly. yeah. it probably tasted like a
couple million years old donut. 100% proved the earth isn't round, but it still might be a donut. so i'll keep you updated on
how our donut chase goes. - we have landed here in illinois. going to be proving that
the earth is a donut. so, here in chicago, illinois. i mean, look how flat that road is. all right, guys. chris is calling. let's see if he made it. hey, did you make it to illinois? - yeah. 375 something, right? - all right, chris, i just put my magnet on the ground. put your magnet on the ground and let me know if it gets
sucked through the earth to my magnet. - all right. my magnet's on the ground. it's not really doing anything. - all right. do not fret. it's okay. i didn't actually think
the world was a donut. i just wanted to confirm. you can go back home now. - but wait, i thought, since, you know, the moon was the donut
hole, it was really a donut. is it not? - no, apparently the
moon's not a donut hole. i know, i thought the same thing. so, enjoy your fly back home. - see you, like, tomorrow. - yeah, i really appreciate you flying all the way out there just
to test this for me, man. you're the mvp. - yeah, no problem. like just a couple of days
wasted and a lot of money, but it's cool. you know, we had to prove it, right? - dude. at least now the viewers
know the world isn't a donut. here, i'm gonna look- - it is not a donut. - you're welcome, guys. for all you wondering if
you're living on a donut, you're not.