- we're all familiar with amazon's choice, the harbinger of all that is
good and right with the world. if you see that logo, it is an instabuy. it is personally approved
by jeffy b himself. or is it? what exactly is
an amazon's choice product? well today, we're going to find out. so let's say that i'm doing
this without being logged in. it does seem like your
previous history is going to help inform what the
amazon choice items are. so keep in mind that your
results will certainly vary. so i'm going to do this logged
out for the best results. if you look through the faq section, "amazon's choice makes it
easy to discover products that other customers frequently choose for similar shopping needs." now, they're very clear
that you can't be paid off to be an amazon's choice, that it has to be algorithmically chosen, based on low returns and
high customer satisfaction. but looking through some
of the items that pop up as an amazon's choice,
i have some questions. if i want the overall pick, which if i hit this little thing, it says it's the amazon's choice, for food, they recommend pop-tarts. i actually don't know if i can disagree. i mean-
- no lies are told here. - what android device should
i buy, amazon? let me know. oh, good lord! their overall pick for android is this 8k
android tv box for $33. this is a legitimate amazon choice. man, i'm gonna get it. this looks bad. excuse me? the overall pick for smartphone
is the total by verizon, tcl 30 z, 29.88 prepaid phone. please help me understand this. how is this an amazon's choice? it's got 198 ratings, but
it's only got four stars, which is fine, but it's
actually not that strong. am i missing something here? so they say that all these
amazon choice picks are, "on average, delivered faster," but a lot of items i'm looking at are not prime shipped either. you know what i need in my life? some aural bliss, baby! headphones, let's go. - aural, aural.
- i said that. that's what i said, check the tape. aural bliss, baby! so amazon's choice for headphones are lightning earpods at 208,000 ratings? - [ken] yeah. these things are popular, man, and they have the best mics. - remember these used to
be free with your phone? - [ken] remember when they
included these with the phone? - that's why i said, i just
said that. remember, ugh. - [matt] do you remember when
it used to come in the box? - what if i just type in
literally just the word gaming? amazon, take the wheel. headphone hanger? how is that gaming? to me, this is really emblematic of what amazon's choice is all about. i'm gonna open up a private tab. i'm gonna type in the word gaming again and see if i get the same thing. i don't think i will. now with a logged out fresh tab again, i get an rgb gaming mouse pad. see, this is where amazon's choice, i'm not gonna say is nefarious 'cause i do think they're trying to tailor this toward me
who just added headphones to my cart. but like if i'm looking for gaming, i don't think this is
what i want for gaming 'cause it's just a
holder for my headphones. let me place this order and shortly, we will evaluate if these amazon choice products
are really jeffy b approved, or whether i need to reevaluate
some of my life decisions. this video is sponsored by pulseway. pulseway is a game changer. it really is one of the
best remote monitoring and management softwares. it is designed by it professionals
for it professionals, loaded with everything you need. pulseway is very easy to deploy and has a robust overview of
all assets being monitored. you can do it all from
remotely checking the status of servers or workstations
to restart services. pulseway also has real-time alerts, preemptive strikes against tech disasters, and can automate routine tasks. when speed and efficiency is important, you want to use pulseway. but it's not just about convenience, it's about security too. pulseway's multilayered
defenses safeguard your systems against cyber threats. in a world where chaos is
bound to fill your day, pulseway is a trusted sidekick, making you a real life tony stark, just without the cool suit. embrace pulseway, it's the help
we need in this digital age. try for free at the
link in the description and secure yourself some special savings. now when i'm looking for a laptop, amazon has clearly led me to the promised land of the hp 14 laptop. does it have a name?
no, the name is laptop. wait, oh god, could you just
look at how laggy this is? not only does it animate
at like five fps, but look, sometimes the windows
key doesn't even work. i hit the x button
already, just wait for it. (upbeat music) oh, oh, it caught up to something. i gotta at least like look at task manager or something with this stupid thing. oh, it's really hot. there's no fan inside. you know what? here, while it decides to do
nothing, let's open it up. let's just do that, that'll
make me feel better. i know how to do that at least. (laptop shell snaps)
yeah, boy! i didn't break it. (laughs)
- that sounded bad. - no, no, no, no, no. that's a good sign, that's a happy noise. it's happy noise.
- yeah. - hmm, well so-
- did you take off that whole foot to make sure
there wasn't like one screw? - i peeked it to the edge to make sure that there's-
- okay, if there's one screw in the middle of the foot-
- look, there's no screw here. - okay.
- no screw, no screw. - keep going.
- no screw. no screw, no screw, no, oh.
(crew laugh) who puts one screw there? there's not any screws here or here! well, it's pretty basic. we got a... well, what can we say we learned? we learned that there's
no point in opening this. (production beeps) the problem is that with this being $300, mind you, it's a bundle, but i don't care about the bundle 'cause i just bought amazon's choice. amazon recommended me this laptop. at this kind of price, you can actually get a decent laptop with like a core i3 or a ryzen processor. so the fact that amazon's
recommending this, i don't understand it, i really don't. luckily, i put my trust and
faith in amazon's choice to build not just my laptop setup. oh no, we've got a wide
variety of accessories that are gonna truly surprise and delight, starting out with our razer ornata x. so this is a gaming keyboard.
let's see what we got. now getting any kind of razer keyboard for this price is kind of decent, especially if you actually
care about razer chroma rgb. all right, let's plug this in and experience the aural bliss. ooh, see? that's what i'm talking about. the rgb on these keyboards
is actually pretty good. i think there's a real argument to be made that most people would
look at this and think that it is significantly more
expensive than like 30 bucks. but the real test is gonna be
not just how good it looks, but how well it types. first time typing on the keyboard,
so we'll see how it goes. (austin exhales) (keyboard clacking) 91 words per minute, not
a bad keyboard, honestly. i would maybe still lean toward getting an actual mechanical board, but like you could do worse with the rgb. so let's take a look
at the amazon's choice for a gaming mouse. for 25 bucks, a deathadder essential
couldn't be too bad, right? so we got a little bit of rgb action here, just a little bit. so let's try it around. it's a little bit of a
larger mouse, i'll say. and it feels certainly a little hollow, but not in a way that offends
me at this kind of price. like so far, i think both of our mouse and keyboard peripherals
seem to be pretty decent. as we all know, you can't
build yourself a gaming setup without a gaming headset. now this is the ozeino zw1 gaming headset, and it has
glittering as a function, (kinsey laughs)
as do i. i glitter most days. (soothing music) no, it's one of these. it's got both usb and aux, but the problem is is that
the aux is just for audio, both in and out, and the
usb is just for the rgb. so you have to plug both in if
you want both audio and rgb, which i find to be so frustrating. so, oh, oh, i'm out of usb ports. - oh.
- hmm, that's unfortunate. well, what do i want? do i want my mouse or
my keyboard or my rgb? let's try the rgb at least. let's try it. that's the rgb. well, okay, actually no. nevermind, i like it 'cause we've got ourselves
some glowy microphone action. recording, okay, so this is what it looks like from the hp stream's webcam. and this is what the
microphone sounds like, which i'm sure is gonna be
really, really high quality. sounds great, look great.
what more could you ask for? you know what? okay. headset, not terrible
when it comes to the mic. don't adjust it ever
with your ears in there. but let's actually listen
to something, shall we? - [kinsey] like how
we have a standard dance set to sea shanty 2 at this point? 'cause we've been doing
this for over a year. (catchy music) - they're fine. honestly, not bad. but what's a gaming setup
with just regular peripherals? that's not enough. what happens when you
wanna share your epic, loud bang-bang moments
(laughs) with your friends and they don't wanna
share your headphones? well boy, oh boy, have i
got the solution for you. i got my lenrue computer
speakers with rgb. so the speakers themselves look fine. i'm sure they'll look
nice when we turn the rgb, but on this speaker, there's
a little touch icon here. is this a touch-sensitive surface? does it maybe control the
rgb or mute or something? so we're gonna plug
into the headphone jack, and we're gonna plug into
our usb and see what happens. ready, set. ooh, okay, so we've got some rgb. now i'm curious what
happens when i touch it? oh, oh, oh, we got like turbo mode. we can get like some
pink action, turn it off. a little cycle or a faster
cycle or a more smooth cycle. all right, all right, let's
give this thing a try. (lively music) did someone put sand in my speakers? i don't know what it is. i don't know if it's the cable or what, but like as soon as you
get to the higher volumes, i hear rattling. i think this is an l, as the kids say. amazon choice, buy better speakers. - here's for a desk for
gamers that don't compromise. (austin laughs) - what what is this one?
this is just a gamer desk? - [alex] you ordered it. - no, i didn't order this one, did i? - you did.
- no, me? all right, so this is a gaming desk. now if i recall, this
was super, super cheap. - [alex] yes, it was 32 whole dollars. - 32 bucks, i'm surprised
i couldn't ship this thing for 32 bucks. man, what's jeffy b doing
with all that amazon money? we're gonna put this together and we'll show you our completed amazon's choice gaming
setup sans gaming pc 'cause i forgot to order that one. (steady music) all right, gang, let's experience the
amazon's choice gaming setup. now the only problem i
really have with this desk, you would have to crank
your chair pretty low. and if you're a taller person, your knees are gonna hit
this, so just a warning. when you look at it all
together, honestly for $32, this might be the best amazon choice, except for my pop-tarts. on to the next segment. (stimulating music) now that we got our
gaming out of the system, let's take a look at
amazon's choice for pokemon, which is of course an elite
trainer box of obsidian flames. as we all know, if i've looked deep into
the analytics on youtube, anytime we talk about pokemon
cards, interest skyrockets. no one ever exits the vid. no, no, no, no, don't close the video. no, this will be fast, i promise. we're gonna get through
it real fast, don't worry. my favorite thing is the promo
charmander being super mad that he can't go outside. so when i type the word
smartphone into amazon and choose the amazon's choice, this is not quite what i had in mind. this is a tcl 30 z and this
is a prepaid verizon phone. now $30, okay, that
forgives a lot of sins. i would know. hmm, pause. all right, so they're pitching
me on 32 gigs of memory, quad core processor, and then here are all
the plans that i have to sign up for to activate the phone. hmm, ooh, right. i forgot i need to activate it. well, you know what? let's find out. let's see what we got. wow, that's a lot of
accessories. is that a case? my $30 phone comes with
a, oh, that's not a case. that's the back of the phone. (snickers) we have thankfully successfully gotten into the android home screen, and i have not signed up
for any verizon account. i bet you it's gonna start bothering me about it pretty shortly. yep, "tap here to manage
your wireless account." but that's fine. technically right now, i have a fully functional android device without paying for the
service, which is nice. okay, so let's take a look at the apps that are pre-installed. one weather, oh, we got our device pulse. let's see what device pulse actually does. wow, you can have your location too. sure, you can have my location. let's actually give the
camera a try, shall we? i mean, 30 bucks, man.
let's see what we got. okay, so start out with a
selfie, a beautiful selfie. oh, i've seen worse. now mind you, i'm not gonna comment on the plans and the pricing. i don't know how that lines up with other sort of like prepaid carriers. at least if we're talking
about the phone itself, not bad, jeffy b, not bad. are you looking for some
brand new headphones? well, amazon got the
choice for you, earpods. not to be confused with airpods. luckily, i have an iphone
13 mini that i still daily, which is perfect for this exact occasion. let's give these a try, listen
to some music on my earpods, which again i will remind you, used to be free if you bought an iphone, but apparently are now amazon's choice with a whole bunch of reviews. (crickets chirping) for me, they're actually not terrible. let's do a little audio test. i'll make a little tiktok here and i'll show you what
these are really good for. so you can listen for yourself
on what this sounds like. i mean, it's fine, and
importantly, it's over lightning, which means there's no delay. it's very clean and crisp and clear. you know what? jeffy b, you strike back. this is great. you know what? we've looked
at a lot of tech so far. why don't we lighten the mood with a clock?
(box thuds) cool, so here is my 10-inch clock. - [kinsey] is that why you got that? - [austin] what? no. (staff members laugh) what is this-
- well, you need another one so they can fight. (staff members laugh) - [austin] there we go. - [kinsey] sick. - that actually, that's a
pretty good-looking clock. (production beeps) when i asked for the
amazon's choice for camera, what i didn't expect was this. the 1080p digital camera
with 16x powerful zoom. all right, and oh, whoa! that feels like quality, my friends. can you hear this quality? (camera taps) can i also just point out
the 16x powerful zoom? this is not a zoom lens,
there is no zooming. that's a fixed lens. 16x powerful zoom is digital
cropping aka useless. we've got not one, but two batteries and
a 32-gig microsd card. we even got a lanyard. you know what, eh, how bad could it be? "welcome." thanks, camera. oh, flash, okay. oh wait, it's not flash. it's just a light. (camera clicks) it's a lovely noise. we're now recording at 2.7k on
our $50 amazon choice camera. it's not horrible. i kind of get it how this
is the amazon's choice and not like, i don't know, a sony cybershot, canon powershot, nikon
disappointment, i don't know. amazon's choice for
phone is an unusual one because it's a actual
phone, you know, a landline. so for all you zoomers out there, let me explain how we used to
communicate in ye olden days. you know, somewhere between
telegraphs and text messages, somewhere between carrier pigeons and x, we had wireless phones. - [automated voice] this
voice guide will assist you with the basic setup
of smart call blocker. do you want to continue? - boy.
- next, this voice guide will assist you-
- so after an extensive setup, we have our phones. so i'm gonna go into the menu and pull up, it took a while for us
find this, the intercom. hello? can you hear me? can you hear me, over? - hello? hello?
- i don't hear, ah, i got you. all right, i'm gonna go. - [kinsey] rubber duck,
come in, come in. - i'm running, i'm
running. goodbye, friends. - bye.
- so basically what we can be doing here is walking all over the office and we
can just page each other by carrying around these
very convenient phones. - i don't know, we can't just be like,
"oh, where's austin?" i'll just be like, "hey
austin, where are you?" - so i think it's pretty
clear that if you're looking for a phone, this is a phone. well, in fact, it's three of them. - [kinsey] who is buying these? - grandma. out of all the items that
we ordered for this video, this is, i'm pretty sure the most sus. the problem with these
android set top boxes is that they are very, very commonly filled
with lots of sus things. not like sus things
that you would think of, like key loggers or network snoopy things, or just the stuff that
i don't want on my wifi. i wouldn't be surprised
if we hit this thing up, it's gonna give us some
a quick little trip to the pirate seas to download
and stream some content that is a big no-no when it comes to our corporate
overlords. (tongue clicks) so this is where i put the disclaimer that everything i'm about
to do from here on out is for educational, fair use, exploration purposes only. and jeffy b said i could do it. so got a problem? talk to the big man. mom said it was fine. - [joanna] i think we need to start limiting the amount
of times you say jeffy b. - you know what, just
'cause you're jealous of my personal deep relationship with jeffy b doesn't mean
you get to take it out of me. 'cause look, we're just bffs, okay? so we have ourselves
the play store, chrome, and youtube, and update, netflix, and we have aptoide tv, wifidisplay, apkpure. - oh, that sounds-
- okay, we're getting a little closer here. must-have apps, tiktok
and honkai: star rail. boy, i don't know if i wanna play those on the tv, yeah.
- on apkpure? why not? - yeah, what could go wrong? all right, let's watch a video, shall we? b-e the ring a ling. i agree, the ring a ling's a great idea. while i'm gonna be super clear, in no way recommending you
to purchase this item, okay? i still don't trust it, but if you're willing to
take a bit of a gamble, and you probably shouldn't
be, but if you're willing to, it actually is pretty decent. performance is acceptable. it's not loaded up with
a bunch of nonsense. it's got a few things that
are maybe a little sus. and again, it might be
eating my wifis right now. i don't know, the real
advantage here is the fact that you've got yourself a
microsd card and usb ports, which means you can easily
import your own media or use the variety of different tools on board to acquire your own. not that of course, i would-
- hello, this is the fbi. is there something you
wanna tell us about? - no, officer. i would never. i'm actually a law-abiding
citizen and would never, ever, oh (quack), oh (quack), oh (quack)! no, no, no, not again! i can't go back! (glass smashes)
ah. (groans)