- so this is cleo and as you can probably immediately tell, cleo is an awesome dog. she's one of the nicest
dogs i've ever met. she loves people, anyone
that'll give her any food. she's pretty classic dog stuff and she also happens to
be missing her right leg. she was found on petfinder
after she spent some time as a stray in oklahoma with
injuries from unknown causes. now hanging out with cleo
and just playing with her, like you'd almost forget,
like you wouldn't even know that she's missing a leg 'cause
she's just running around, chasing stuff, playing fetch, she loves being outdoors,
all that classic dog stuff. but although she appears
super healthy now, dogs that are missing limbs and any pets that are missing limbs are actually more likely to
have things like arthritis and joint problems in their
other limbs later in life 'cause they're compensating
for the missing limb. so she's running around being awesome now, but it would be ideal for
her long term to be supported so that's where this company
called 3d pets comes in. so they reached out and
they were telling me they have a particularly
high tech solution to the problem and asked if
i basically want to go see it and it turns out it is pretty sick. i mean, i've already
talked about this before, but there's tech in everything. like every story, every
angle, everything i see on the news nowadays,
it has some tech in it, but even this story surprised me at just how much tech was involved
in helping dogs like cleo. so it's this multi-step process. first up is this scan. so the pet comes into their studio, which is actually in new jersey, pretty close to our video studio and they actually use a smartphone to 3d scan the animal. so the idea is to take a few scans, they actually use the
iphone's lidar scanner or use the true depth
camera system or both. this isn't exactly what
they were designed for, but with apps like combed and hedges, it is a pretty clever solution
for just basic measuring. so basically once you get cleo to hold still for long enough, you can get a pretty
decently accurate scan of her dimensions. how high off the ground she is, how far around, the
shape of the prosthesis, what that needs to be, et cetera and all of this is to be
used in the next step, which is 3d printing the
prosthesis, it's crazy. now you might be thinking like i was at the beginning
of this, wait a second, why is there so much tech
being used in this process? like why is it 3d scanning the animal and then 3d printing the prosthesis? what's going on here? and the real answer as they explained it to
me basically is because every single animal's situation
is a little bit different. no two are exactly the same whether it's the reason
that they lost the limb or part of the limb, but then just like the size of
the animal, how big are they? how far off the ground does the limb end? how much weight are they
gonna be able to put on it? all these different things
are slightly different for every single animal, it's
kind of like a fingerprint. so clearly you can't just mass produce like one size fits all prosthetic. obviously even with humans, you know this is is already true, but the idea is you want it
to be as custom and bespoke and comfortable for every
single animal as possible so this 3d printing process allows for rapid reiteration and making
a couple different versions till you get it exactly right and so this is why
they're doing it this way. 3d pets in particular, they've worked with over 300 different animals
so far at their studio. they actually start with a
candidacy form on their website. but then once they get going,
they have a ton of options. to date, they've done many dogs as pets, but also some ducks, a tortoise, a pig. they had a goat recently that
was missing part of its skull that didn't form properly and
goats like to use their heads for stuff obviously so they made a helmet for him
and one elephant leg recently. so anyway, cleo's scan
pretty straightforward and within five minutes they have a couple decently accurate models to work with and then they import it into the computer to move to step two. so how do you get the scan off the phone? - well that's the easy part. we get the scan off the
phone onto our web portal, which we're able to bring into a custom design software here where that's really
where the magic happens, where we're able to take a design and really mold it to
the 3d scan of each pet so that we can make sure
everything's fitting perfect. - so this is cleo's scan, and the appropriate fit as it
would be built on the scan? - right, so you can see the scan overlaid and we can patch things up as needed. it's almost like 3d photoshop in a way, but then we're able to
control the lattice, the hardware mounts, where the straps go, we can really position
everything perfect to each pet. and then once we're happy, once it's set, then we bring it into another software where this is where we
optimize it for printing. so we have to be able to basically give the printer
instruction on what to make. so this is where we really fine tune the intricacies and the
detail of each layer 'cause again, we want
some areas to be nice and rigid where hardware
mounts, for example. but like around the rib
cage, around the lungs, we want the flexibility so you can see we don't have
that thick lattice there. this over here, these wings
we can really easily bend even if the dog fluctuates in weight, we want it to accommodate those changes. but where the mount is, where
the hardware is on this end, this we want to be
really sturdy and strong 'cause that's where the impact is. so once we're happy with
this, once it's ready to go, we'll take it over to
one of the 3d printers and we have a whole
bunch of different sizes depending on the case,
depending on the animal, but they're all pretty
similar in how they work. - so 3d printing, to be perfectly honest, i never really cared that
much about 3d printing. this is like a confession. like i never... there was a ton of hype about it and obviously a lot of
people care a lot about it, but every time i was brought up to me, i couldn't really find a reason to care and we got a 3d printer at the studio and we've printed a couple
random trinkets here and there, mostly things that are
just like useless stuff just to see if it'll work. whatever, neat, but this is the first time i've seen a situation where
3d printing clearly makes the most sense for a
manufacturing process. obviously you can't do one single mold, you can't do one size fits all so like i said, it just made the most sense for once. they have a couple different
size printers in here ranging from something like an anker m5, something you might buy on amazon all the way up to an industrial sized one, the size of a refrigerator,
basically to work on different sized pieces
for different animals. so once they were happy with cleo's design of the prosthesis in the
software, it hits the printer and about literally 24
hours later, it's done, it's printed, the whole thing. now this isn't the final step for hers. there is still a sanding down
process to soften the corners and make it as comfortable as possible and also in 3d printing, there's commonly these
support pieces that you get when you print oddly shaped
objects that need to be cut off and they're actually working
on ways to melt that down and use it in other
things like wheels or feet so they can actually be
resourceful about that as well, but they've showed me a bunch
of examples of various shapes and sizes of things they've
printed for animals in the past. - so this one is just
about ready to ship out. this dog has a residual limb. so we have this build out
here and we do it like this so that we can keep
the weight bearing load right below where the limb used to be. if we have it in any other place, they just won't be able to walk correctly. - and this is also now softened down and it is just sanded, basically? - we do a sand and torch. so we'll basically burn the material back like what the machine
is doing, heating it up to a melting temperature,
it smooths it out. and something that we're
very well known for with our devices are our feet. and so one of the biggest
things is when the dogs are taking steps, you want that
foot to be able to compress to absorb that. i'll trade you. i think this is version
like five or six of the foot and we're on version like
10 or 12 of the harness so they're constantly
changing and adapting. if somebody reaches
out to us and they say, i burned through a foot,
here are the reasons why, we're gonna make the changes to the foot so that stops happening. and so that's why we go
through our variations. we're actually working on
the next version of the foot, which has rounder edges so more of a radius on these edges. - like a tire maybe? - yeah, yeah, exactly like a tire because dogs tend to lean
on one side or the other and we'll typically have
the owners flip it around once they start to wear on one side so it wears evenly. - a tire rotation? - exactly, a foot rotation. and then behind you, we
have some of our carts that are in process too. so this is one going
down to a dog in texas. she's got two deformed limbs. in fact one is really not formed at all, but she's got one deformed
here on the left hand side. so we make provisions for that so that the shoulders
can still move around. so this'll get three six
inch wheels on each corner. and then this, this is
another good example. this is for a dachshund that
has one full remaining leg and had a partial amputation. and so the owners didn't want
something extremely bulky, but they wanted that
front leg to have support 'cause dachshunds have
a lot of back problems. so we designed this
specifically for this case where the dachshund can
put its legs and move it and still have the
support on the outer edges and we still have our
flexible harness here. and the wheels can
change camber as well too so depending on-- - sport mode. - and we'll go up to
eight or 10 inch wheels. i think you saw this one. - that escalade dogs. - we should do spinners
on one of these rooms one of these days honestly. i haven't put it past people. the woman that we did our
original dachshund cart for, she saw our black wheels and she was like, i'd like silver rims, please, and i thought she was joking. i totally thought she was joking and i was like, oh, that's a cool idea. she was like, no, really
i want silver wheels. - would you paint it or would you-- - we ended up painting it. yeah, yeah, yeah. - so, cleo's scan was pretty good. then they designed her prosthesis around that scan, that went great. then they printed it, sanded
it, and torched it down and matched it with
the leg for her height. the only step left now
is to see how it works. so what i kind of didn't realize is it's not just like you attach
the prosthesis to the dog and then they just magically
start running around perfectly like they've had it their whole life. but no, like anyone who's
had crutches knows this, there's actually an adjustment process as you get more and more used to it. so i got to watch cleo
sort of learn in real time even in just these few
minutes, go from hovering it off the ground to eventually
starting to trust it. and the process of them getting used to it depending on the pet is
basically to introduce them to more and more time per day with it so that they eventually get
used to totally living with it. maybe 20 minutes a day at the beginning, then it's an hour a day,
then two hours a day and you slowly see them start
to remap their muscle memory and unlearn walking without the limb and really trust it and
depend on it by the end. so at the end of the day, i
thought this was super cool and basically it's a huge
win for pets like cleo and it's also super cool that it's enabled by tech that
feels relatively accessible, like a phone in our
pocket, a computer app, one or two pieces of
software and then 3d printers like all things that we
can get started with, that's how they got started
with building this studio in new jersey and actually
helping so many pets and they actually now will
continue to evolve this. there's other places around the country in the world doing the same sort of thing, but they potentially
can do remote creations for pets that don't come to the studio but they get to like send a mold in and then build a prosthesis
for other animals they don't even get to see. i'm not even gonna pretend to be an expert on 3d printing or prosthesis, but like hopefully this helps more animals sort of extend their
lives and live more freely i think is the right word. these pieces are typically priced from a couple 100 bucks
to up to 1,000 or $2,000 and ideally will last a lifetime at least if they've stopped growing. so thanks to 3d pets for letting me pull back
the curtain a little bit into how they use tech to do what they do. thanks to cleo for letting
me hang out all day and thanks to you for watching. see you in the next one, peace.