- apple were so, so close. so the apple event just wrapped up, and not only have they
announced the brand new imacs, but we also have a bunch
of other updates including a brand new ipad pro, as well as a purple iphone, airtag. a bunch of stuff to talk about. but we've got to address
the elephant in the room. that imac is, well, not
exactly what i was expecting. so you gotta consider
that the current imac has been around for a
very long time, right? that sort of aesthetic has
been there for 10 years now or something at this point. and this is the first time that they've fully, fully redesigned it. now, on one hand, that's great. now, the colors, i will say
immediately, i am a huge fan of. it really kind of brings me back to those old-school imac g3 days. but then there's the chin. okay. look, the imac has
had a chin for a long time. that's fine. but one of the big
advantages with this new imac is the fact that it is
running the m1 processor, which is, of course, shared
with the macbook air, macbook pro, mac mini,
and now the ipad pro, as well as the imac. now, it's important to keep in mind that this imac is not probably the last of the imacs we'll see. this is a 24-inch imac, which is very much a replacement
for the previous 21.5 inch. there will 100%, without a doubt, be a bigger 27 or 32-inch
imac coming later this year. probably with an upgraded processor, kinda little bit more along the lines of something like an imac pro. so just let's keep in mind,
as we talk about this, with all the bright colors and everything. this imac is probably not for me. it might not be for you. it was definitely for someone
who is looking for a desktop that's sort of more of
a casual all-in-one, and not something which is a hardcore gaming and editing powerhouse. what really jumps out to
me though, is that chin. so, look, this thing is very thin. so i think they said it
was something like, what? 11.5 millimeters thin. which is very, very thin. and unlike the previous imac, which looked really thin on the side, they kind of like tapered out, so there was almost a little
bit of an optical illusion. this is actually just 11 millimeters thin all the way through. very, very cool for a desktop. but essentially, it's
all display, right? so the reason that chin exists, especially if you look
at some of the images that they showed during
the press conference, really goes to show that that bottom is all about the speakers, the two very small fans
to keep the m1 cool, and the logic board, which, to be fair, is hilariously small. but really the thinness there, i think, is entirely down to the
actual display they've got. now, it is a retina 4.5k display, which again, is nice, right? the previous base model 21-inch imac was still using like a 1080p
or just wasn't even retina yet. so, obviously, the display
is going to be nice. but i kind of feel like
they missed a little bit of an opportunity here. yes, they could have made
the entire thing, what, three or four millimeters thicker, put all of the components on the inside, and then completely gotten
rid of that bottom bezel. but instead, they made it look very, very thin from the side. but you're looking at the computer, not from the side most of the time, you're looking at it from the front. and from the front, you got
yourself a very large chin. now, i'll say that i
personally don't mind the fact they've taken the apple logo off of that and moved it around to the back. i actually put a twitter poll out during the event to see
what people thought. and it's pretty close to 50-50 on people who liked the new imac
design versus don't. but i just can't help but feel that there was a little bit of something that they missed there, by making it just a little bit thicker and getting rid of that chin, right? - [ken] also the fact that
austin is not an engineer and maybe there was other reasons why. - no, no. you can just make it thicker! you know that they could
have just made it thicker and it would have been just fine. the other thing that i think
is a little bit controversial are the bezels. they're white. ala, what? like 2013 iphone status? look, this is the point. i don't know if you agree or disagree, i do not like the white bezels. - [ken] i love them a lot. - [matt] i hate them.
- look, white bezels are not the move. white bezels are not the move, okay? now, inside the new
imac, it is, of course, very, very similar to all
the other m1 macs, right? so you're looking at the m1 processor. and just like with the macbook air, there are a couple of configurations. so there's a seven-core gpu
as the base model at 1,299. and then there's the eight-core
gpu with more storage and ram and all that kind of stuff, which you can start to upgrade to. but the pricing is fine, right? i don't think the pricing
is all that unusual. but they've made some really
interesting decisions here. so first of all, it has four usb-c ports. that's basically it. now, two of these are
thunderbolt-enabled, which makes sense because all of the m1
macs have a limitation of only two thunderbolt
displays or thunderbolt ports. and on top of that, you can only run one additional display right? that's just a limitation of it. it does have a headphone jack on the left side of the border. but probably the more interesting decision is the power cable. so it is color-matched with the computer. and you'll see as with the
rest of the accessories, everything's gonna be colored
match, which is a nice touch. so it's magnetic, but it's
an external power brick. now, that external power brick, just like the old chromecast, actually has your ethernet port built-in. yeah. i guess. i mean, i would have preferred, probably, to have it on the back of the system. but i guess it is helpful
for cable management to kind of tuck your
ethernet out on the bottom. at least they still
have an ethernet cable. however, when you bump
up to the 1,499 version you get all the colors, you
get the touch id keyboard, and you also get the higher-end specs, and you get the better gpu. realistically, though,
i feel like most people who are purchasing an imac, they're not doing it for
hardcore professional use, right? i mean, they were talking
way more about apple arcade than they were talking about
photoshop or davinci resolve, which makes sense. what i really wanna see, personally, is the imac pro, the imac 32-inch. whatever the bigger
version of this is, right? you put the more powerful,
like, m1x or m2 in it, i think this thing's gonna
be seriously powerful. now, with that being said, i do use a 13-inch
macbook pro as my daily. i'm editing this video on
the 13-inch macbook pro right now with the m1. it is very powerful. but the thing is, when you
look at what this imac is, it's essentially a mac mini
with a very nice display, right? which is fine. when you look at that price difference, especially if you're trying
to buy a 4.5k display, it actually isn't unreasonably
priced in my opinion. but it's hard to get excited
about with the design, which, personally, it sure.... i mean, this event just wrapped up. three days from now i might look at it and go, "oh, this is amazing." but, i mean, it's just a big chin. there's nothing going on down there besides that's where they're
hiding all the components. so, it's a little bit
of an unusual decision. now, what makes the
imac an little bit more of an interesting decision, is the fact that it shares that m1 chip with the now brand new ipad pro. now, as timmy cook so helpfully showed us how to break into apple security, it's kind of weird that
this is very thin ipad has the exact same chip as the imac which needs that big chin to include it. a little bit strange. now, the m1 here is very similar to what you're gonna
find on the macbook air, macbook pro, and everything. the main difference
is, of course, the ipad does not have any fans to cool it. so you're likely gonna be losing a little bit of performance,
but also it's running ipados so you're probably not really gonna notice unless you spend your
life inside of geekbench. and you do now also get
thunderbolt on the ipad. you get other stuff too, like
two-times faster storage. you get up to a two terabyte ssd. but the real question for me is what are you going to do with this? they need a big deal about all the things you can do with ipad pro
and don't get me wrong, there are certainly some major
things that are very unique. with like the ar space and
you have stuff like photoshop and you can do video editing on the ipad. but i still find the ipad to be a little bit of a
weird space right now, right? where the m1 macs do so much so well, where exactly does the pro
in the ipad pro come in? sure, it has a lot of
features, but i think about it and 95% of the time, i would
rather use a full laptop that has the exact same specs except a, well, let's
put it really frankly, a more powerful operating
system in macos versus ipados. now, they did talk about how
with that thunderbolt port you can run like a pro display
xdr at 6k, which is great. but as of right now, the
ipad doesn't really allow you to do a whole with that second display. sure, certain apps will support, you know, like throwing your video
off as you're editing it on the main display or
something like that. but it's very limited. now, in a few months, at wwdc, if they do show off the ability for ipados to have multiple windows and you can actually take
advantage of an external display, that will make a lot more sense. but where i struggle with the ipad pro is just, it's a lot more power. but i mean, this thing is what? two, three years old at this point, and it's still as incredibly
powerful as it is, right? there's no other tablet that touches it. and i can't think of a single thing that i do on a daily basis that i need more power for an ipad. which sounds strange because
i always like more power. but like they're selling
this thing to professionals, but they don't really
have the tools really that are going to make that useful. now, to be fair, the
new 12.9-inch ipad pro, so not the 11-inch, the larger variety, does have a mini-led display which is, admittedly,
very cool looking, right? 1,000 nits of brightness,
almost double the previous ipad. you get 10,000 mini-leds
behind the display versus 72 on the last. so essentially means that
it is incredibly bright. it's got great contrast. this is cool. but, again... (groaning) i mean, look, i love the
120 hertz on this display, and sure, it's not super,
super visible outside, but i look at something like
this and it's a nice upgrade, but it doesn't fundamentally
change what an ipad is. and it certainly doesn't
fundamentally change what you can do with an ipad pro. there's also a white smart keyboard, which i think looks great for the first seven
seconds that you use it. there's also 5g on the new
ipad pro, which is cool, right? i'll give them that. but realistically, this is
a spec bump ipad, right? the real upgrades for the ipad pro i really do believe are
going to be in software. in a couple of months, we'll see what they've got for ipados 14 when it comes to wwdc. but as of right now,
solid, decent upgrade. but, for me, personally,
i didn't see any reason to upgrade an ipad pro, right? it just doesn't do a
lot for me over the 2018 or the 2019 version that you
may already have right now. that being said, what is
absolutely worthy of an upgrade is a new purple iphone. this is literally all i have to say. there's a purple iphone
12 now. it's very purple. and i think it looks very good. now, there were some other things, including the finally announced airtag, which essentially is a
little bluetooth tracker that is similar to something like a tile. this has been rumored for years now, and it's actually pretty cool looking. you can engrave it, it uses
the u1 chip on your iphone to track things down. and it'll run you a solid $29. i didn't have to look that up at all. it'll be great for ken
when he loses his keys every 15 seconds. - [ken] it's true. - there's also an upgraded apple tv which has a better processor. there are a couple of cool features here including a brand new remote,
which looks to be much better. as well as you have a very cool feature which will allow you to use your iphone to actually do all the
calibration of your tv through the apple tv, right? so you put your phone up to the tv, it'll do everything to
get the color just right. at least when you're watching
stuff through the apple tv. which makes sense because
realistically, let's face it, who's spending $180 or $200 on a set-top box these days, right? i mean, personally for me, i use the built-in webos on my lg smart tv. i don't even have anything plugged in. but that being said, if you're gonna spend the
extra money to get an apple tv, it makes sense to give it as
many features as possible. if you wanna get your hands
on any of the new upgrades, the purple iphone, as well as airtag will be available on april 30th. and that same day, you will also be able to
pre-order the new apple tv, imac, as well as the brand new ipad pros. and all those will ship
in the second half of may. i'm very curious. what do you think about
these new apple upgrades? for me, ipad seems fine. but the imac is really
where i wanna love it but it's just, it feels
like it's so, so close.