if you were to define what it meant to be 
a banana, you had to tick every box on that   list and then you could be nothing but a banana. 
we're going to look at a sequence and show that   it converges to a limit you weren't expecting. so 
the sequence is as follows: the first term is 9, second term is 99, third term 999. 
fourth term - you guessed it - four 9s;   and we're going to continue with this pattern. 
so obviously this sequence goes to infinity.   we're adding more and more 9s, so in the 
usual sense this is a divergent sequence;   it goes to infinity, it's getting bigger.
but i'm going to show you that in fact   this tends to -1. this sequence of adding more 
and more 9s, making the number larger and larger,   in a certain situation can be shown to tend to -1.
and here's how it works. first of all we need to   establish what we mean by saying a sequence tends 
to a particular number. this might seem like   something you know, or you've seen before, but 
this is going to be really important in justifying   why this is -1 so bear with me. so if we start 
with a different sequence; so suppose i have 3/2,   4/3, 5/4, 6/5 and it's going to continue. so 
we're adding 1 to each of the numerators - numbers   on top - and we're adding 1 to each number on 
the bottom. so the nth term, if we would sort   of go along and say pick a certain point in the 
sequence, what does the nth term look like at that   position? it's going to be n plus 2 over n plus 
1. so first term, plug it in, we get 3 on the top   over 2. third term here this would be n equals 3, 
we get 5 on top 4 on the bottom. whatever position   down you might say to me, find the 1000th 
term in the sequence, it's a 1002 over 1001. now this hopefully you can see is going to tend
to 1. as we increase n, we go further and further   along the sequence, the top and the bottom 
get closer and closer together. so we can   get as close to 1 as we want by going 
further and further down the sequence.   so the way we would show that is you take 
your nth term - which here is n plus 2 over   n plus 1 - and we subtract off what we think the 
limit is, so here we think it's going to be 1,  and then we work out the distance between these 
two. so i'm calling this our distance function.   now if we're working in the real numbers - which 
these are all real numbers - then the distance   function is just the modulus of one number 
subtract the other. so we take the modulus   because it's a distance so it should be positive 
- you can't really have a negative distance. so   here the distance in the real numbers is n 
plus 2 over n plus 1 minus 1. what is n plus   2 over n plus 1? well we can simplify that 
and say, well that's actually the same as n   plus 1 plus another 1 all over n plus 1 minus 1.
but then we've got an n plus 1 over an n plus 1   so that's a 1 so we can say that's actually 1 plus 
1 over n plus 1 minus 1 so we get 1 over n plus 1.   so again, with this distance function the usual 
way of measuring distance, we can show that the   nth term of the sequence and what we think the 
limit is; we can say the distance between them   looks like 1 over n plus 1. so as we now go 
further and further down the sequence what   we're doing is we're letting n tend to infinity. 
we're making n bigger and bigger, what happens   to our distance as n gets bigger, the distance 
tends to zero. so as n tends to infinity, the   distance between the two things is 1 over n plus 1 
which very clearly tends to zero, so we would say   this sequence converges to 1. and we've done that 
using the distance function, which for the real   numbers is just modulus of one of them minus the 
other. i'm going to need more paper. as always. the reason i've introduced the distance 
function, as some of you may have guessed, is   if we're going to show our sequence of 9s 
is tending to -1 we obviously can't use the   normal definition of distance because the distance 
between a larger larger number and -1 is getting   bigger so it's it's just not going to work, it's 
not going to tend to zero. so we need to think   about what other definition of distance can we use 
to show that this sequence is indeed going to -1.   and the one we use is called the 2-adic metric - 
and we will check this is a distance. you say the   distance between two numbers x and y. so x and 
y are going to be integers because here in our   sequence we're only working with integers so we'll 
keep things simple. so the distance between two   integers in this metric is defined to be 1 divided 
by 2 to the m, where m is the largest power of 2  that divides x minus y. so this feels a little 
complicated, so let's look at an example, let's   think about what does this mean. let's suppose 
x is 100 and y is 4. so in the usual measure of   distance we would say the modulus of x minus y 
is the modulus of 100 minus 4, they're 96 apart.   feels hopefully kind of obvious. now in the 2-adic
metric we've changed our definition of distance, so we need to think about what power of 2 divides 
their difference. so we already know the difference,   the difference between them is 96. so if we think 
of powers of 2 we've got 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64. 128 is   obviously too big so i'm going to stop there. 64, 
well that's 2 to the 6, but 64 doesn't divide 96.   it's smaller than it but 64 times 2 - which would 
be the next smallest thing you could have - wouldn't   give you 96. so we actually need to go down to 
2 to the 5, which is 32, which perfectly divides   96. so 2 to the 5 is 32, 32 times 3 gives us 96. 
2 to the 5 divides the difference between our   numbers so, in our definition, we can say in the 
2-adic metric the distance between 100 and 4 is 1   over 2 to the biggest power, so here 2 to the 
5, so that's going to be 1 over 32. so usual   definition of distance that we're all used to, 
these numbers are 96 apart, 100 and 4. however in this   metric they are 1 over 32 apart; which doesn't 
feel at all natural and-
- (brady: or useful)
- or useful. i   mean well that's a whole other conversation. 
we're entering the realm of pure maths. this- now that you've set me off on this - it is useful 
because we learn properties about the numbers.   so this kind of investigation, okay this isn't 
a distance in our world, but we can learn things   about distributions of numbers through this. ao 
this 2-adic metric can be generalised and is   used to actually in fields medal level research 
to learn about rational numbers. so beyond beyond   my pay grade, beyond my ability to do the 
maths, but there is some usefulness in there. so we've got our 2-adic metric. so i've just 
told you this is a way of figuring out how   far apart two numbers are, but you need to check 
from a mathematical perspective that it does   everything you would expect a distance measure 
to do. so we have a set of axioms. in order to be   a distance function: it maps from two numbers in 
our starting space into the real numbers, we get   an answer that's a real number. where d satisfies 
three things - this one's called positivity. and   these should hopefully fit with your intuition 
of what we might expect from a distance. if   we have two numbers x and y, the distance 
between them is greater than or equal to zero.   we're talking about distances, okay they might 
not fit our usual way we think about them, but   they still need to be positive. you can't have 
a non-positive distance, negative distance   makes no sense. and in fact you can say and it 
equals zero if and only if x is equal to y. so   you only have a zero distance if it's the same 
point. again, hopefully fits with our usual notion.   second one is called symmetry, so this says the 
distance between x and y- so if i start with x   and move to a point y, i should obviously get 
the same thing if i start at y and move back   to x. d of x,y is d of y,x - quite straightforward.
doesn't matter where we start. the third one is   called the triangle law. now this one is best seen 
by picture; if i start at point x and i want to   go to point z then what this says is moving 
directly from x to z is always going to be   faster than going via some third point y. 
again, fits our usual way of thinking about   distances. if you're thinking about the usual 
measure of distance this is saying the shortest   way to move between two points in the plane is a 
straight line. of course it changes if you're on   spheres and changing your geometry. in terms of our 
function that says the distance between x and z   has to be less than or equal to - so it's shorter 
than - going by a detour. so if we did d(x,y) plus d(y,z) written out algebraically. so these three axioms, 
three rules, need to be satisfied in order for   a function d to be called a distance in terms 
of the mathematical definition of a distance. so   we just need to check that our 2-adic metric 
satisfies these three things; because at this   point you're just taking my word that this is 
a reasonable thing to do, even though we get a   rather ridiculous answer. so we do want to verify 
this. let's write down our definition, 1 over 2   to the m where the m was the largest power of 2 
that divides their difference. so is this positive?   it's one over a power of 2, that's certainly a 
positive number. so we can say that works. we're   all good. symmetry: if i do the distance between x 
and y, is that the same as doing y and x? well here   we were finding the largest power of 2 that 
divided x minus y. so what that means is we're   saying 2 to the m divides x minus y. so if we write 
that out algebraically, what that tells you is that   x minus y equals something - let's call it a - times 
2 to the m. because if this is going to be a factor   of that there has to be something else. so in our 
previous example we had this was 96, we had 32 here, so a would be 3. it's just that other integer part 
of our division. so if 2 to the m divides that it, means that. so if i now say, well what's y minus 
x? well that's just minus a times 2 to the m. so   the same power of 2 still divides the number the 
other way around, we've just got a minus sign in front. we don't care about that, we're in the integers so 
we're allowed negative numbers. so-
- (so positivity) (could go out the window there)
- positivity does still 
hold, because the function itself was the biggest   power of 2 that divides the number. so even though 
there's a minus here, this- so this might be   -96, the biggest power of 2 is 32. so it's still the 
biggest power of 2 multiplied by some integer, now   it's a negative one, but the power of 2 is still 
positive so we're okay. so that gives us symmetry;   now triangle law, a little bit of work required. 
let's start by thinking about (x,y). suppose this   is 1 over 2 to the m, and let's suppose the same 
power also divides this one, 1 over 2 to the m as well. so we're sort of thinking here, what is 
the largest power of 2 that divides both of these   two okay? and pick that one to be our distance for 
these two. because what we can then say is this   means x minus y is equal to some number - let's 
call it a - times 2 to the m. this one means y   minus z is some number b times 2 to the m. these of 
course could have powers of 2 in them, there could   be a bigger power of 2 that divides this one, 
but we want a power of 2 that works on both of   them. and then if we try and work out this one- so 
for here we have to consider x minus z. so what's   x minus z? we've got equations for things here so 
we can say x minus z is- x is going to be y plus   a(2 to the m). and then we want to subtract off z,
we've got z - if i take it over there and do that - z is   y minus b(2 to the m). so x minus z we're going to 
lose the ys and we've got minus minus becomes a   plus, so what we've got is a plus b times 2 to the 
m. so what this is saying is if i have a power of 2   that divides x minus y, and a power- the same power 
of 2 that also divides y and z, then it definitely   divides x minus z. and it can't get smaller; 
if you sort of look at what's happening here,   because it divides these two, by this algebra it's 
definitely a factor of this one. so it definitely   divides that one. but it can get bigger, the power 
of 2 here could get bigger. because a plus b, as i   mentioned here, these could have factors of 2 in. 
so when you add them together this could contain   additional powers of 2, but that would just mean 
this one had a larger power of 2 - what's our   definition of distance? it's 1 over that power.
so you could potentially have a bigger power of   2 dividing x minus z, but that means the distance 
between x and z is smaller which is what we needed.   so that one's a little bit harder to get your 
head around; and i recommend working through   this for yourselves actually because this is the 
kind of crux of showing that this metric works. but it will satisfy the triangle law and therefore, 
as ridiculous as it may sound, the 2-adic metric   is a distance function. 
- (just because it matches 
those things- i mean if i- if i said to you all) (bananas are yellow and then i pulled out a yellow 
volkswagen, and i said look that's yellow so that)   (must be a banana as well - just because it happens 
to meet the criteria it doesn't feel like to me)   (it has to still be a distance; you're telling 
me it does?)
- it's- i i see your point but i think   if you were to define what it meant to be a 
banana it would be: it is yellow, it is a fruit,   it has the curve- whatever it was there would be 
several things. and so you would create almost   like an exhaustive list such that absolutely 
everything- you had to tick every box on that   list and then you could be nothing but a banana. 
- (you haven't convinced me though that this three)   (is exhaustive)
- yeah well that's a fair point. so yeah, 
i mean this is why they're called axioms, and this   is why this is the mathematical definition of a distance.
- (for this video i'll take your word for)  (it that that list is exhaustive.)
- yes that this- anything satisfying these three things from the   mathematical perspective we call a distance. now 
our real world definition of distance fits these. okay, when we talk about the numbers and taking the 
modulus it's obviously positive, symmetry and it   does satisfy the triangle law with the picture. 
so the one we're used to in the real numbers   is a distance. of course that doesn't in any way 
prove that all distances have to look like this,   but the one we used to fits these rules, and it 
just so happens that we can find other distances.  some of them are sensible; like great circles, 
great arcs, on a sphere - they will also satisfy the   same kind of thing. but it just so happens that 
here it it fits the axioms; we as mathematicians   have said if it fits the axioms it's a distance, 
so we can now use it to measure distance for this   particular sequence.
- (all right, i'll let you do it.)
- we showed at the beginning that if this is going   to converge to some limit - which i'm telling 
you is -1 - then what we need to show is that   the distance between the nth term, which we'll 
work out in just a moment, of the sequence and   what we think the limit is which here is -1 we 
need the distance of those two to tend to zero   as n goes to infinity. so we did the example with 
n plus 2 over n plus 1 and we showed that that   does indeed tend to 1 because we got 1 over n plus 
1 here. so as we make n bigger and bigger and   bigger, 1 over a bigger number we get zero. so 
the nth term: well if this is the first term, it's   10 minus 1. this is the second term- so let's write that, 
10 minus 1. this is 10 squared minus 1. 10 cubed minus   1 - so it's actually a nice and easy 10 to the n minus 1 
is our nth term. so we need to show this and that   tells us that this sequence does indeed go to -1. 
what's our definition of distance we're using? the   2-adic metric; because if we use the real numbers, 
it obviously is infinity, that's no fun. we wanted   to get -1. so we need to find the largest power of 
2 which divides that number minus that number.   so of course -1 plus 1 10 to the n. so what's 
the largest power of 2 which divides 10 to the   n? well 10 to the n is 2 to the n times 5 to the 
n; because 10 is 2 times 5, 2 to the n is   a factor so our distance in the 2-adic metric 
between the nth term of the sequence to the limit   -1 is 1 divided by 2 to the n. what happens 
to this is n tends to infinity? 1 over a bigger   and bigger and bigger number, this tends to zero 
as n tends to infinity. so what this means is n   tends to infinity is saying as the number in the 
sequence - 10 to the n minus 1 - as this number gets   bigger and bigger and bigger, more and more 9s 
in a row, the distance between this really big   number and -1 gets smaller and smaller. because 
in this measure of distance, the 2-adic space, in   this space the way that we measure the distance is 
1 over the biggest power of 2 that divides it.  so this number is getting huge and it's getting 
closer and closer to -1 in this space so we can   say the sequence of 9s converges to -1.
- (does this happen with a lot of other sequences? like is this-) (is this some unique property of numbers with 
lots of 9s in it and the -1? or could you pull-)   (could you manufacture other sequences where this happens?)
- you can do this with any sequence you want.   so the 9s i just picked because it works quite 
nicely with the algebra. the other thing you can   change is here we've done on a 2-adic metric, the 
more general case is p-adic where p is a prime. so you need a prime number for lots of reasons 
but that again is, i'm going to say, a little bit   beyond what i'm trying to get across here in this 
particular case. but as long as you pick any prime   number you can measure distance in the same way. 
so you- for the 3-adic you would say it's the   biggest power of 3 that divides the difference 
between these two numbers and then your distance   is 1 over 3 to that power, similar kind of idea. 
- (so if you'd done 8 - 88, 888 and used) (8s instead of 9s would this necessarily still 
work? does it depend on the numbers?)
- no that would   work. i think that- off the top of my head i want to 
say that would be zero because 8's perfectly   divisible by 2. if you change the numbers 
in your sequence the limit will change. so -1   here isn't special, that is just the limit for the 
sequence with all the 9s. if you had a sequence with   all the 8s like you said you're going to get 
a different limit - and it might not even converge.  it doesn't have to converge to something. like 
because i could write down an arbitrary sequence   that's not going to necessarily converge. so you do 
have to be careful, it needs to be something which   almost has been like artificially constructed to 
make sure it's going to converge, and then you need   to figure out what that limit is. and finding that 
limit can be quite tricky. so i told you it was -1   but to actually work out why it's -1, a little 
bit of work involved in that. 
- (so possibly right)   (now we could put on the screen a few examples of 
other sequences and what they converge to.)
- we could. our thanks to jane street for supporting this 
video. now you might be wondering, why is like   a high-flying, research driven, trading firm 
supporting a numberphile video? basically it's   because they think the people watching - people like 
you - are the sort of smart, curious, problem-solving   types. and maybe some of you could be the next 
person to join their teams in the likes of new   york, london, or here in hong kong. not sure how much 
work i'd get done here actually, but anyway. there   are interesting jobs, internships, free programs 
you can join; all sorts of stuff going on. go to   janestreet.com and click here on 'join jane street' 
to find out more. this is a company that really   wants the best people, and it wants to look after 
them to make sure their careers are interesting,   fun, successful; and you could be one of them 
so go to janestreet.com, check out the website,   all your questions are answered there, and our 
thanks to them for supporting this video. every time we have a pattern puzzle i'm going to write down the list of numbers 1 through 16 in the   order that they appear in the tray so for example...