every year, a deluge of tourists 
stream into yellowstone national park,   america's first and possibly 
most famous national park,   and (i would argue) one of the most beautiful 
and geographically rich places on earth. but this past june of 2022, many of those 
tourists, along with some of the permanent   residents of the area, found themselves at ground 
zero of a natural disaster. torrential rainfall in   wyoming and montana brought widespread flooding 
to the streams and rivers that flow through this   treasured landscape and beyond. homes, bridges, 
roadways, and utilities were swept away and over   10,000 people were evacuated. as of this video's 
production, the national park service is still   picking up the pieces and deciding how to restore 
the damaged infrastructure within the park,   but while the nps is busy with that monumental 
task, i wanted to share the engineering details   we already know about what happened during 
the flood, how they might rebuild the roads   and bridges stronger than before, and why they 
might not want to. i'm grady and this is practical   engineering. in today's episode, we're talking 
about the 2022 montana and yellowstone floods. this video is sponsored by 80,000 hours,   a nonprofit that helps people have a positive 
impact with their careers. more on them later. if you didn't grow up with posters of the old 
faithful geyser on your classroom walls and   watching yogi bear raiding picinic baskets, that's 
okay. i can give you a quick tour. yellowstone   national park celebrates its 150th birthday this 
year since it was established in march of'72.   the park covers the northwestern corner of 
wyoming and extends into montana to the north   and idaho to the west. it's a big place, 
roughly half the area of wales, if that's a   helpful equivalency for those more familiar with 
the metric system. and there really is a lot to   see. there are geysers here, here, and here where 
hot water and steam are ejected from the earth   at regular or irregular intervals. in fact half 
of the world's geysers are located in the park.   there are hot springs, vents, and mudpots here, 
here, and here . there is a massive natural   lake that freezes over each winter here. 
waterfalls here and here. plus mountains,   valleys, wolves, bears, bison, and lots 
more spread throughout the entire park. a series of roadways connects the five 
park entrances to the various attractions,   lodges, campsites, and of course, 
their respective parking lots.   indeed, for better or for worse, the park 
service estimates that 98% of visitors never   get more than a half mile away from their car. 
we bucked that trend during our visit in 2019,   but only for a single hike. otherwise we stayed 
on the beaten path along with the roughly 3 to   4 million other visitors per year that cram 
into the same 1% of the park's total area. here's why that's important to the story: many 
of the most visited areas of yellowstone are   along the rivers and streams that run through the 
park, largely due to the unmistakable beauty of   those rivers and streams as they flow into and 
over the striking geologic features. however,   that proximity of development to the watercourses 
in the park became a serious and nearly deadly   complication this june. on the night of the 12th 
into the morning of the 13th, an enormous storm   system dropped rain across nearly the entire 
yellowstone area and large parts of montana to   the north. some areas saw more than 4 inches or 
100 millimeters of rain in less than 24 hours.   what's worse is that a lot of those inches and 
millimeters fell on top of snow-covered ground,   rapidly melting the snowpack and exacerbating 
runoff. these so-called "rain-on-snow"   events have a long history of contributing 
to floods, and the 2017 oroville dam spillway   failure that i've also covered on the channel 
was partly a result of rain-on-snow flooding. all this rain and snowmelt concentrated in the 
streams and rivers that flow through the park.   the us geological survey has several stream gages 
spread throughout the park and southern montana,   so we can take a look at the data 
to see exactly what happened.   and the national park service posted an 
album of aerial photos on their flikr page   so we can compare the streamflow 
records to the damage on the ground. a few places on the edge of the storm only 
saw a small spike in streamflow. for example,   the firehole river that carries water 
from old faithful only went up by about   a foot and a half (or 45 centimeters). that 
river comes together with the gibbon river   along the west entrance road, where, again, the 
increase in streamflow wasn't overwhelming. but   near the northern border of the park, things were 
much more serious. the river in the lamar valley,   sometimes called america's serengeti for the huge 
populations of bison and other large animals,   came up nearly 9 feet or about 3 meters, 
briefly surpassing the "moderate flood" stage,   which is the level at which the national 
weather service expects damage to buildings   and infrastructure to begin. at locations where 
the valley narrows, the torrent of water eroded   and destabilized the river bank, threatening, and 
in some cases destroying the adjacent roadway.   the soda butte picnic area was hit 
the hardest in this part of the park. the gardner river at the north entrance of the 
park came up about 2 feet (60 centimeters) at   the stream gage, but that number doesn't quite 
capture the devastation. a good portion of the   flood damage in the park happened along a single 
stretch of road where the gardner river created   massive washouts and rockslides. in many places, 
the entire road has been completely washed away   where the river altered its course to 
flow through where the road once was. many of these streams confluence into 
the yellowstone river that flows through   southern montana, and flooding continued 
along this river out of the park.   one employee housing structure fell 
completely into the river and floated away.   the usgs estimated that the yellowstone river 
exceeded the 500 year flood stage nearly all the   way to billings, wreaking havoc on the communities 
along the river. i've talked about this   "blank-year" flood in a previous video, 
but i'll explain it briefly here.   engineers can look at historical data to estimate 
a relationship between a flood's magnitude and its   likelihood of happening in a given year. the 
500-year flood is just a point on this line.   obviously this is not an exact science (for a 
bunch of reasons), but it's helpful for engineers,   actuaries, and planners to think of flood 
magnitude in terms of its probability.   even though the name implies it can only 
happen once every five hundred years, the   actual definition is a flood magnitude with a 0.2% 
percent chance of being exceeded in a given year. with this widespread and tremendous flooding, more 
than 10,000 people were evacuated from yellowstone   national park. although the national weather 
service had rain in the forecast, there was no   expectation of such significant rainfall, forcing 
employees to scramble overnight to close roads and   get people out of harm's way. remarkably, not a 
single person was injured or killed in yellowstone   as a result of the flooding. also incredibly, on 
july 2 (only two-and-a-half weeks after the flood   occurred), the park announced the north loop was 
back open to vehicular traffic. as of this video,   the only major parts of yellowstone that are 
still closed are the two northern entrances   and their respective roads leading into the 
park. this is due in large part to the fact   that there were already roadway contractors 
working on other projects when the floods   happened. we don't have all the details yet, but 
it's likely the federal highway administration was   able to amend one of those contracts to get help 
repairing some of the flood damages expeditiously. speaking of those damages, we 
still don't know their full extent.   the park service has a lot of work ahead of them 
to inspect the condition of backcountry bridges,   trails, campsites, and park infrastructure.   over $60 million dollars in "quick release" 
emergency funds have already been released to help   with emergency repairs, and some news agencies 
have speculated that the total repairs will cost   up to a billion dollars based on costs of 
similar repair projects at national parks. the highest priority repairs will be those along 
the northern entrances to the park where the   rivers changed their courses into roadways. 
it's not just the park that is affected by   those closures but the communities outside the 
park that depend on seasonal tourism. damage in   these areas will also be the most challenging and 
difficult repairs to complete, likely requiring   completely new roadway alignments that will come 
with environmental and archaeological studies,   public feedback, permits, geotechnical studies, 
and careful design all before construction begins. as an example, the yellowstone river bridge 
replacement project started planning and design   in 2019 and was set to start construction this 
year until floods delayed the project, so that's a   roughly 4-year pre-construction phase. some people 
might call this unnecessary bureaucracy and red   tape, and certainly the communities that depend 
on yellowstone traffic will be hoping for much   speedier temporary repairs to these roadways. but, 
many might also consider this careful planning and   design as good stewardship for one of the most 
beautiful places on earth. hasty engineering of   large infrastructure can be extremely damaging 
to natural systems like those in yellowstone,   and you don't want to invest millions of dollars 
into repairs that might be subject to similar   flooding in the future. after all, we build parks 
(and roads to parks) to get closer to the natural   environment and all its wildness, and there's 
almost nothing more natural or wild than a flood. and by the way, it will be a lot of peoples' 
actual jobs to study, plan, design, and implement   those repairs to this incredible national park. 
in fact, there are a lot of careers out there   where you work on fulfilling projects and make 
a positive impact on the world. but they're not   always easy to find. 80,000 hours is a nonprofit 
that has a simple and singular goal: help you find   a job that is meaningful and impactful. after all, 
most people spend about 40 hours a week for 50   weeks a year for 40 years working. those 80,000 
hours of your life are your best opportunity to   solve big problems and make a difference, so it's 
worth spending some time to plan it out. 80,000   hours has spent the last 10 years conducting 
research and compiling that information to help   you navigate choosing the right career. they have 
a job board full of high-impact careers, a podcast   with experts about the working world, and lots 
more. turns out that platitudes like "follow your   passion" or "do what you love" don't always lead 
people to the most beneficial and fulfilling jobs.   find out what does completely free at 80000hours 
dot org slash practical engineering. if you sign   up for the newsletter, you'll get a free copy of 
their in-depth career guide sent to your inbox.   that link is in the description. thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think.