- there's a site called plug tech, which promises premium
refurbished electronics, but they've gone viral for something that i don't think is
necessarily a good thing. - that the phones are fully functional, we did clean and sanitize them. and after that,
- wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, hold on, hold,
pause, pause, pause, pause. did they just say that they clean and sanitize by taking a toothbrush and wiping off the bottom
of 40 phones at once? we eating good tonight (laughs). we can see they've got
iphones, androids, macs, ipads. i mean all the stuff that
you would sort of expect. "discover the thrill of surprise and fantastic value
with plug mystery boxes. your ultimate source for
certified pre-owned tech at unbeatable discounts." my dudes, are you putting
macbooks and iphones in mystery boxes? did you just create austin evans bait? so the $100 mystery box contains an ipad, airpods, iphone, or apple watch, all of which are $99 or more in value. so they're saying that by
spending a hundred dollars, you're gonna get between a
hundred and $150 worth of value. dude, there's zero shot here, that they have 1400 reviews, all of which are five star, like bro. so let me see here, so let's
just pick an iphone 11, sure. the condition is eco-friendly. what the (whips) is that? that's not a condition plug tech. eco-friendly, is that mean bad? 'cause i think what you're
trying to say is bad, but you misspelled bad as eco-friendly. so brand new, which i
don't think they sell that, excellent, is like new. makes sense. good, will have one to
two visible scratches and eco-friendly. "this condition phone will
have visible scratches and maybe some dents, a case will cover up the imperfections". it's like i'm dead inside, but this shirt covers up my feelings. so with that, my friends,
let me press the order button and we're gonna take a closer look to see, is plug tech the hottest
thing since sliced bread, or am i gonna be eating nothing but toast as they've taken all my money and i've gotten some mediocre
electronics in return? only one way to find out. and so my friends, we have
a surprisingly small box, full of tech from plug tech. i am low key excited
for this video in a way that i have not been in a while. look, since we recorded
the ordering scene, we ordered all this stuff. not only have they been sending
me lots and lots of emails, but i've been watching
more of their shorts and i can't quite put my finger on it, but they're almost kind of like, charming? all right, so we have a bunch of boxes. okay. they're not labeled, they're just, well i think this is gonna be a laptop. but everything else, i
have absolutely no idea which one is which. so we purchased every single
mystery box from plug tech. so all of these items could
be quite literally anything. plug tech box number one is an ipad. okay, well i think that that's
from the ipad mystery box. i could figured that one out on my own. mom, aren't you proud? so on the back it looks pretty decent. and on the front it also looks, well, there's a kind of
deepish scratch right here, but relatively clean i would say. i'm curious with, especially
with the mystery boxes, on what kind of condition we're getting. because my assumption is that
they only build mystery boxes of stuff that's like a
little bit lower quality. you know, there's just stuff
you're trying to get rid of, but this actually looks quite nice. can you tell me what the listing said my ipad mystery box could have contained? - [alex] yes. so it could have been either a 9.7 inch, - which i got.
- or a 10.2 inch ipad sixth gen. - oh, gotcha, okay, so basically you could have got the, older ipad or the newer ipad. okay. so it has been actually wiped. so we know that that's ready to go. this screen is in good shape. i'm not seeing any dead pixels, but sort of a small scratch,
very good condition. so i'm gonna set that up in a minute, but let me just see what
else we've got in here because it's, it comes with headphones? oh, it does come with headphones. it did say that in the listing, didn't it? - [alex] yes, it's supposed to come with london urbanista wireless headphones. - so these are headphones that exist. i'm gonna guess that these
are probably like $10, $20 headphones, but whatever. it's nice that those are included. - [alex] i mean they claim $50 value. - well you know what? that's fine. we also have a actual, is this a, oh it's a plug, wow, wait, hold on. this is actually a plug tech branded usb-c. they clearly must be a
relatively large company to be able to actually like custom design or at least custom like silk
screen chargers and whatnot. so we've got our ipad set up, and if i hop into the
about page, we do see that it is a sixth generation ipad. what's not nice is the fact
that it's in great condition, but sixth gen means it came out in 2019? -'.
- 2018. so the problem here is that while this is currently
fully supported on ipad os 17, how many more years of
updates it's gonna get with two gigs ram in an apple
a10, eh, remains to be seen. so before we go too in depth on that, let me actually try our london headphones and we can give the ipad a proper go. london noise canceling, our urbanistas, which actually i'll say
the case feels nice, it's gonna get scuffed up really fast, but it's kinda like that
soft touch material. it is usb-c, and we got some, wait, is that the squarespace logo? that's the squarespace logo. oh god, are the headphones
dead outta the box? the headphones are dead outta the box. my dudes. so update it has been
almost 20 minutes of waiting for these headphones to charge and they still do not do
anything besides blink at me. i've tried restarting the ipad, i've tried to check on other devices, they just aren't showing up. - [alex] if you look on amazon, you can get the exact ones that you're holding right
now for $17 on amazon. - so lemme get this straight. we spent $200 on this mystery box. we got an ipad, which according
to plug tech is worth'0, but realistically is worth more like 130. we got a pair of $50 headphones
according to plug tech, which are really worth $17 on amazon.com, and a fast charger, which is worth another like 10 bucks or something. i would still save like 50 bucks by not buying the mystery box. this is not a super promising start, but we have lots of other mystery boxes, which i'm sure will be much, much better. in box number two, we have, a, oh god, no, no, not... (alex laughing) what is this box? okay, so lemme try to figure this out. so i've got another pair of the exact same $17 london headphones. i've got a usb-c to lighting fast charger, which is exactly what came with the ipad, and i've got a pop socket. what? is this the $50 mystery box? oh god, this is the $50
mystery box, isn't it? i am part of the hashtag plugfam. yes, that's all i got in this box, 'cause i'll tell you, i'm looking at 17, 27, $30 worth of value, tops, if i actually wanted this
stuff, which i don't. - [alex] it does
not explicitly match up with any of the mystery boxes that we got. for reference, the $50 mystery box - yeah.
- includes at least a beats, airpods, apple
pencil, magic mouse or head- - oh.
- wait, it says headphones. is that?
- this is headphones. - that's so
- this is a $50 mystery box. oh god. you know all that stuff i said about, oh, i'm feeling good about plug tech? yeah (censored) that. that's not, oh god. go to box number three (sniggers). a phone, okay, well hold on,
hold on, hold on, hold on. we got a phone. now what other boxes could
have given me a phone? let's see. - [alex] multiple
boxes can give you a phone. - well that's great. i have yet another pop socket, they're a really big fan
of these pop sockets. let's see, it is a galaxy s20. that's the worst one that could have come in the samsung box i think, right? 'cause i think it could have been a z flip or an s21 or the s20. quality wise, it's
actually kind of (censored) up, wow. so at first glance it looks fine,  but if you look here in the center, there's a bunch of little like marks. now at first it looks
like dirt or something, but i don't think it is. i think there's a bunch
of little scratches. what looks to me, is that this is a phone that got like some dirt in the case. i dunno if you've ever done this before, but if you had like a
little dirt in your case, kinda like rubs it in like
some sand or whatever. so i can feel that all those
little marks are permanent. that being said, it's fine. and if i can give them any props here, this is the best colorway
of a samsung phone that they may have ever done. the s20 and the violet
or lilac or whatever and the gold camera, like
screen looks to be very dirty. so clearly not sanitized and cleaned well 'cause it is absolutely filthy, but i'm not seeing any
real scratches on it. so i've just finished
setting up the device and i was actually wrong. this is not a galaxy s20, it's an s21. even though they look almost the same, i should remember that
because i used to use that and then i forgot, huh. anyway, okay, so apologies plug tech. this is not the worst
phone i could have got. it's the second worst,
but hey, that's something. it is a 128 gig phone. the only other thing is it's got a lot of at&t bloatware on it. and it also has asked
me on several occasions to insert my at&t sim card. i unfortunately don't have a sim card 'cause mine's on esim,
so i can't actually test to see if it's unlocked right now. i would hope that it is. you probably could find a way of doing it. that would be the only concern i've got. let's actually make sure
everything works fine. - [voice from phone] also,
like how they advertise free - that speaker sounds
a little weird to me. like it almost seems like
it's been like a little like clapped out. all right, i'm gonna take
a 64 megapixel selfie. is everyone ready? ah, ah! no, no, no! there we go, that's better,
i like that one much more. all right, let's see here. cameras seem to be fine. how much did i pay for
the samsung mystery box? we'll start there. - [alex] so this is actually the most expensive mystery
box they sell, for $300. - this was 300? i forgot that this was $300.
- yeah. - okay.
- this was $300 - and i could have got z flip out of it, which would've made me feel
much better, but i didn't. - [alex] yeah, you
could have gotten up to an s22, which would've been
actually quite a good deal for that.
- an s22 is worth more than 300 bucks, yeah, the fact that you could
buy this exact same phone with a warranty from ebay for
almost two thirds the price that we paid and we could
have gotten a worse phone, i mean i like my little pop
socket, don't get me wrong. and i love this colorway, but big yikes. let me take a break from mystery boxes. let me go for an item
that i do know what it is, which is this large box right here. inside we have, our 12 inch. okay, it's scratched right
on the freaking apple logo. (alex laughing) this is our 12 inch macbook. it's not terrible. so if
you look at the apple logo, the first thing i
immediately see is just this, scratch right across the middle. the rest of it's actually
not too bad on the outside. on the bottom it does have some scratches, but that's kind of normal
for the bottom of a laptop. now i will say i am a little
partial to this 12 inch. this is, to this day, one of
the thinnest and nicest looking and feeling laptops ever made. they brought out the 12
inch macbook in 2015, 9 years ago, they brought
a laptop this thin and have not made something smaller since. but it's a little guy with a couple, i'd say three major flaws. first of which is the keyboard. let me demonstrate for you the
butterfly keyboard in action. (keyboard clicking) i actually didn't hate
the butterfly keyboard, but it was prone to failure. and there's very little key travel. flaw number two, this
has a single usb-c port. that's it. there's a single usb-c port and technically on the other side you
have a headphone jack. that is all. the biggest flaw with this macbook, and the one that really keeps
it from being useful today, is the processor. these used intel core m cpus. now intel had a long
history of working together really well with apple, before
apple silicon and stuff. and they actually designed
this custom for the macbook. now i'm actually curious to
see when i fired it up, i... (macbook startup tone) there we go, it's coming up. i'm curious to see what
the spec of this one is. we got ourselves a usb-c to c cable. and a very chunky power brick, which is always, you know what? it's mostly hollow though, which
doesn't make me feel great. so they gave us a sleeve. lovely, plug tech, cool, 14 inch. (austin laughs) wait, wait, wait. lemme put this in here. this is, okay, first of all, it's like a cheapy kind of
like basic neoprene sleeve. but like you put your
12 inch macbook in here, you zip it up, (laughs) it, yeah, you know what? the macbook smelled delightful. this smells like the
inside of a nike factory. (macbook rattling) so let's see what we're working with. so it is currently running mac os monterey. so that's mac os 12, so that's
two generations behind. oh boy, yeah, okay, so it's
a 2016 model, which is fine. 306 cycles. so that is a pretty well used battery, but that should still
hold a decent charge. it's just slow. like here, i'm gonna load up the channel. i'm gonna show you how slow this can be. we're gonna keep loading youtube. there we go. okay, it's coming. not terrible. - [austin on video] this
video is sponsored by acronis. - and the speakers are actually not bad. this one's tough. how much did i pay for
my gold 2016 macbook? - [alex] well, we did
pay for the highest quality. so this is the best case
scenario, excellent condition, for $310. - okay, excellent condition, ah, i think i can give it to them. once you lose the capacity for charge with this particular battery, it is, i'm not gonna say impossible, but real difficult to replace.
let me actually open this up. it's actually a really
cool design on the inside. there you go, all right. so this is what's inside our macbook. i'm gonna very carefully do this 'cause i don't wanna yank out our cables. you see 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 batteries. not only are these very,
very difficult to take out because they're glued,
but they're also terraced, which is a technology that apple gave up because it was so expensive, basically there's like different
little layers to each cell. it is incredibly complicated. but you can see the entire
motherboard is incredibly small. and keep in mind, this is a computer that originally came out in 2015. so there's a lot of stuff
here that's very exciting. excellent condition, i agree,
and it's a pretty fair price. it's not really much more expensive than getting another one of these on ebay. so out the items so far, mystery box is a little hit or miss, actually buying the item
that you want, thumbs up. let's take a trip back
to the mystery zone, with this very well packaged item, inside we've got, oh my
god, it's a pop socket, and a charger, and a case,
and i assume an iphone. okay, well they are
nothing if not consistent. so this is our iphone 11 pro. - [alex] we got this
in eco-friendly condition, what they call eco-friendly. - what most people call garbo
town, this is eco-friendly. okay. doesn't look terrible. some scratches around the side
but not, not nothing crazy. it also has a screen protector on it, which i do think they mentioned that they were gonna pre-apply one of the screen protectors. - [alex] that is correct. pre-installed screen protector. - this is not bad. the probably the worst
scuffing is right here where the charge port is. but again, that is all very cosmetic. nothing that would
actually cause a problem. and we do have a plug branded
case, which is lovely. boy, they just, they really
want you to live that plug life. alright, so let's see what
we're working with here. so this is an iphone 11 pro. it is on ios 17. so this is still fully supported. it's a 64 gigabyte phone, which is fine. that was the base model. let's check the battery, 'cause the battery would be the thing that i'm a little concerned about. 93%, that's actually pretty good. 'cause the iphone 11 pro came out in, 2019? no, 2018, 2020? 2019. 2019. what's up? totally fine, totally fine. let's try the cameras. i am seeing no reason
why this is eco-friendly. really, it is not a problem at all. all right ken, we're now recording in 4k on the iphone 11 pro. where are your glasses, my dude? - well, in order to try apple vision pro, i got contacts because we were too late in ordering our lenses. - how much was our iphone
11 pro starter pack? - [alex] $380 for the
eco-friendly condition. - what would an iphone
11 pro in like decent or fair condition run for a 64 gig phone if i was not buying it from plug tech? - [alex] it's like around $280. - so i'm paying a hundred
dollars more for the accessory. ah, i don't know if i can trust the fact that this was really worth
what we paid for it though. i think it's a little hard to justify, but at least it wasn't
a mystery box (laughs). time for another mystery box. i got a bunch more of these things. i'm sure they're gonna
be filled with nothing but happy, joyous things, like the feeling you get when you hit the subscribe button on
the austin evans channel. not quite as good as the feeling you get when you hit the ring-a-ling
of the ding-a-ling. but you know, you can only ring-a-ling the ding-a-ling so many times before it loses all meaning and no longer fills
that hole in your heart. anyway, (clears throat) inside we have, i have my 75th fast charge kit, and another damn pop socket. oh they're beats with another, okay my dudes. how many of these, these are all the same. i have so many lightning to usb-c cables and 20 watt fast chargers. okay, so i've got two 20 watt chargers, two usb-c to lightning cables, another pop socket, and a pair of beats. what are even beats are these? they're the usb-cs. are these power beats? yes, these are power beats. - [alex] okay, then that makes us, that's the headphones mystery box. woo.
- yay. i'll tell you, there's no accessories and importantly no fresh tips. - oh.
- so i don't know if these are used tips or not.
- oh gross. - but i don't have
another option for them. they look clean. (austin sniffs) smells clean. oh my god, are these dead too? bro, how does everything that they sell me end up deader than the
feelings i had in 1997? i think these power beats are outfitted with some one of the apple,
was it h1 or whatever? w1, like it's one of the like chips that should help me pair it. okay, transparency? they sound decent. and noise cancellation. the noise cancellation is not very strong. how much are these, if i
buy them new right now? - if you buy them brand new,
- yeah. - [alex] it's 200 bucks. (austin laughs) - no. - okay, so this is a hundred dollar box of headphone stuff, right?
- that is correct. it was basically beats headphones. they don't specify what kind.
- yeah, yup. - [alex] so maybe it could
have been different beats. who knows?
- yup. - [alex] or airpods. - okay, i would definitely
have prefered airpods. i'll be honest with you. how much could i buy beats fit pro for? 'cause i'm gonna guess,
less than a hundred bucks. - actually
- no, really? - surprisingly
- what? - if you get it refurbished from best buy, which is excellent condition, whatever, - yeah.
- it's like 110 bucks, so. - so i actually got an okay deal. - yeah.
- and i also got another pop socket. - [alex] i mean it
depends on like, would you call that excellent condition or- - i would say it's, i
wish i had the ear tips. but here's the thing, technically yes, if you want these
specific headphones, sure. but you could spend 30 bucks and get headphones that
are pretty much as good. so i have two boxes here. now we started looking
through the listings of what we purchased. the problem is is that if we got the lowest end items
on both of these boxes, they might be the same. so let's just open them up and see if we can figure out what's what. and if i get one more
pop socket, fast charger, or london headphones,
i'm gonna be real grumpy. - [ken] okay, but i need a pop socket. - [alex] boy do we have - these are not even real. - [austin] and there's
another one on the s21. - oh my god.
- i bet i'm about to hear, i'll open this box and
i'll give you another one. 3, 2, 1... - [ken] wait, what? what's that look? are they, are you, are you okay? (all laughing) - [alex] oh my god. oh my god. (all laughing) that's not a damn mystery box, it just has chargers (laughs). are these all the same? are these all lightning? lightning one, lightning
two, lightning three. they're all the exact same (laughs). is this our a hundred dollar mystery box? it's gotta be, right?
- no, no. - i don't
- so here's the thing, if this is a $50 box and the other one was a hundred, then that's even worse 'cause
that other box was awful. but like- - [ken] dude you, even gotcha
games give you something for free after you
- something different. alright, this is our last box. plug tech you got one
shot to redeem yourself. oh my god, i don't even. - [alex] i'm honestly
kind of speechless. - well, okay, hold on, wait, wait, wait. we have another pop socket, but we have an apple watch
charger and two mysterious boxes. now hold on, we might
actually have something here. (boxes rattling) - okay.
- okay. one of these has gotta
be an apple watch, right? oh, it's an apple watch. well, no, no, no, it's
good though, it's good. - yeah.
- an apple watch. yeah, we did it. wait, which one? apple watch series five. - oh, that's not bad.
- 44 mil. - the other thing i will mention is that this watch band is fake. not that i really should be surprised, but it is thin
- ooh! - compare it to your,
- yeah, yeah. and also has no text on it. so they bought, yeah, you're a fake band, which to be fair looks almost exact same, but it is, feels a little different. that's a good point. so they have a watch, and i'll say that the
watch is in okay shape, but it's got a fair few scratches. like especially right here. a lot of like sort of hairline scratches. oh my god, we finally got airpods. - yeah, boy.
- hey, yo, what the - so assembled in vietnam. so these are gonna be newer. they've got lightning on them. oh, they're the older school airpods. airpods second gen. it actually the only
box that says anything. - oh, oh it is second gen.
- excellent condition, airpods second gen, and
they're dead as well. how is every item i got from a company who sells nothing but chargers, dead? why would you not have some
charge on your own stuff? so i'm gonna charge the airpods,
which is, angry as i am, are in excellent condition. like these are essentially new looking. (austin sniffs) it smells new, no concerns there. apple watch functions, airpods are fine. but look, do you even care? i think if you've watched
this video at this point, you know one thing, these
mystery boxes are terrible. thank you very much for watching. make sure to subscribe to the channel, and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button. and i'm going to go make a mountain pyre of sacrificial chargers
to make me feel better about the, oh, i gotta
remember the pop sockets to make me feel better about the decisions that i have made today. (boxes clattering) [music] into the sea [music] [music] fly like an eagle to the sea. [music]