- are you going to just film
us for the next hour as we die? - mmmmmm! - [matt] fifty more
seconds for the next one. - we're done! we're done! - post it matt! - hey guys, this is austin! and today, well today we are about to make some mistakes, aren't we jake? - we are. this whole thing was a mistake. - i regret it already because today we're not only going to be
building a gaming pc together, but we are going to be eating
hot wings at the same time. not just any hot wings, this
is some hot ones (beep). - [ken] what?! - [matt] we can't actually afford... - i mean is that copyrighted? - every five minutes you're going to have a hotter wing, and then a hotter wing. - so because we're professionals, we'll have the entire
pc built in ten minutes and it won't be a problem, right jake? - yeah, got this. we, yeah. - you don't even sound confident! - just so you know, the
clock starts right now. - so just to... i know the clock started, matt. - it's fine, we're not in a rush. - however, my goal is to never
drink any of those things. - [austin] okay. - and also, i do want to,
out of morbid curiosity, try the hottest one. - well, let's not do it on purpose. let's win and then we'll
- oh yeah, we want to win. try it in victory, all right.
- we're gonna win. - i'm also terrible with spicy things. - okay, well cheers. this is three hundred scovilles. - this is so wet. - this is very wet. - you know, it's fine. - it's like lemon pepper. - yeah. - this is fine. this is not spicy matt. - [matt] well that one is banana pepper. - [austin] banana pepper? - mmm, yeah i get hints of banana pepper. - it's nice. - [matt] just for the record, you have another wing in three minutes. - okay we should start with the case, i wanted to pretend it was heavy but it's not cause i'm so strong. - i mean obviously. - how's that camera angle
doing, probably not great. - great. - oh, you're doing it. do you need help? nope, you did it! - yeah! - austin did it guys, he did it guys. - this might not be a good sign, my lips are actually a
little bit spicy right now. - really? - just a tiny bit. - well, you know what might help? if you rub that spiciness
off on like ken's lips. - [ken] no. - (laughs) - ken, take one for the team! (lips smacking) (whip cracking) - [austin] what's this one? - [jake] it's 1500, so that's 1500 hotter. - [austin] i can't wait. - mmm. - okay that's not so bad. - this one, i'd say, is
comparable to the first. - mmm, i'm getting a little
more spice on this one. a little bit more. all right, x570 aorus master, pretty high board, we are
taking advantage of ryzen, which i have it right here, pre-opened because i thought ahead. so this is the ryzen-- - is it because you thought ahead? or is it because it's
from a previous build? out of curiosity, i
have no prior knowledge. - are you trying to insinuate that i have recycled some parts from some previous project
for some nefarious reason? how dare you? - but no i think this is gonna be a really great playstation. as one might say. tell me more about this
board and this processor. - so if you watched our
building the ps5 video you might recognize some of these things that i am shamelessly recycling. - cause i'm a super fan. - so this the ryzen 7 3700x.
- smash that like button. - i'll let you just
install that, go ahead, i'll let you do the honors on that one. - ah, thank you. and then i push this down, until it snaps. - there we go. - boom. - perfect. - seated, that's what we
call it in the tech biz, is seated, right? - that is, that is true. - [ken] yeah. - so i'm just gonna put our ram in. would you like to do the
thermal paste application? - oh yeah okay, do we
like doing like the rice? - i want you to make a giant x on it and make as much thermal
paste as possible, - (laughing) - nah i'm kidding, yes a grain of rice is
exactly the way to do it. - grain of rice. oh, it's like a long grain. ah! it's art. - it'll be extra cool it's fine. - it's a jackson pollock. (whip cracking) - [matt] so here is
your next set of wings. - [austin] 17,000? - [matt] 17,000. - how's it smell? - ooh, yeah, that's nice. - that's a little spicier. - i like it. - cheers my friend. - aw, cheers buddy. - that's really wet. - not bad. (intensifying music note) - these are actually pretty
tasty wings, good job matt. ooh. - you make great wings matt. - there's a little spice
to that one though, ooh. - is this when i find out
that you're whiter than i am? - that's not possible. - (laughs) - next, let's actually, let's start putting stuff in the case. - okay! - oh wait no i lied. - ah, so close. - we need our ssd. - oh yes i've heard
this is a very fast ssd. - it is. so it's a pci gen 4 two terabyte ssd, so it's another aorus product. but essentially, actually
it can go right here. - oh right there. - it's a two terabyte ssd, you
can put everything on that. - oh it's two terabytes? i was not listening when that happened. - yes. - did you say that earlier? - i did. - where am i, did i blackout? - two terabytes. - the cool thing is though
we still have tons of-- - i have like vietnam footage. (guns popping) (explosions) - okay, end scene. keep going. - anyway, so tons of storage, with that we can actually start
mounting this into our case. - oh this is so nice the
standoff is already there. - standoff's already in. - did you prep this? - no this is actually
the way the case came. - oh really? - yes, another thing is the io shield is already attached to the motherboard, again it's built in. - really, you didn't do this? - i didn't touch it! look it's literally like screwed in. - i mean it's literally been three years since i've built a computer, is this how far its come? - when it comes to higher-end systems, yeah that's actually
starting to become a thing. - oh i like how you kinda threw in there that i didn't build high-end systems when i was building computers. in the higher end system
game, the wifi comes built into the motherboard. (whip cracking) - [austin] is that 30,000? - [matt] 30,000 scovilles. - i can do that. look at us, teamwork. - makes the (burps) dream work. - wow, that's quite impressive. jake we haven't been this close
since you cut my head off. - (laughs) i just want no more
context, than just that. - i mean you can check
out the new episode-- - when i circumcised him, what? - see i was just gonna
give you a shout out, we can't use that anymore. you just ruined the shout-out. - [jake] you said the the s-word earlier. i can't say circumcised,
it's a medical procedure. - already? we didn't even get anything done. - i screwed in something. - [matt] number 5. (whip cracking) 50,000. - [jake] dip it a little more so you get a little
bit more of that flava. - you want to go to flavortown austin? i gotta one way ticket baby. - i want nothing to do
with flavortown at all. - ooh, that's fine. more vinegary. - it's very vinegary, ooh,
it's a little spicy though. i'm definitely tasting
the spice in that one. ooh! - [jake] okay another screw is in, this is, we should, are
you, what are you doing? what did you do? what did he do? kenjamin! (yelling) what did he do? - that's some very warm milk. (laughs) okay, so you're gonna do graphics card. - oh heck yeah. - okay, sweet. - and this is the 1060. - super! - 2060, super, 2060 super. which is great for 1440p gaming. it has 8 gigs of ram, seven,
whatever name they have for their ray tracing cores, or is it six? six, might be six. - six ray tracing cores? - i think it has 6 ray tracing cores. - i think its like hundreds
of ray tracing cores. - well they call them six. - [matt] it's at least six. - let me read the back of the box. - wait no put the thing in! - no, no i'm reading the back of the box, cause now you've questioned me. - [austin] what is that? (whip cracking) - whoa! did you say 250,000? (groans) - all right let's
just get this over with. cheers. - oh, cheers. - uhuh. it's actually delicious, but uhuh. oh, i hate how it's going down. - before coming here i shaved
right there a little bit, so it's a little irritated and i got some of the hot sauce in my little shaved spot, but besides that it was fun. okay, you feeling good? feeling good?! - nope, nope. - are you pumped? - okay let's go. - but i need to find out
how many cores this has. - no you don't! just put the thing in. - oh, they vacuum sealed this
is gonna take a little bit. - oh, the spicy is kicking
in, the spice is kicking in. i am not happy right now. - oh good, there's a graphics
card guide, this will tell me. - i'm just gonna start cabling it. - this will tell me how many cores. - wait, wait, god (beep). you have to plug in all
my modular connectors and i screwed it in. (groans) - unfortunately this doesn't tell you, here let me just briefly look
up on my galaxy note 10+. - jake. - how many-- - i'm gonna delete your channel. - so, the 2060 super offers six gigarays, nvidia's term for counting
ray tracing speed, so when i said six, i
seem to have been correct. so there you go, six gigarays guys. - so you get to eat my next wing. - no i don't think that's how it works. - [matt] it sounds like
you eat his next wing, cause he got it right. - that's not true, he said cores, that's like saying like my
four-core processor is-- - [matt] he was vague
enough that he was right. - how dare you matt? - and that's how you make science videos, you're vague enough until you're right. okay let me put this in. - i'm gonna unsubscribe
and delete your channel. (whip cracking) - [matt] so here is number seven. - [jake] oh 600k! - [matt] a whopping 600k. all right cheers. - cheers buddy. oh i guess i won't throw
that away just yet. - oh! oh, that's not good. ah, i got sauce on my lips. if i do it like this, i
have to use my tongue. - [jake] so back to the cpu,
it is getting pretty spicy. i'm gonna be honest. now it's hitting me. - yeah. - okay! here we go. - why did we do this? ah! - put it in! (exhaling) okay. (both mumbling) - do you have it? - just no, i don't have
it, gimme, gimme gimme. - take it, take it, take it. (laughs) - it's not funny anymore
just give it to me. - i'm giving it to you man! - we're touching fingers now. you're pushing it too far in. - oh, look at that, there
a hole there. (laughs) (whip cracking) - [austin] matt, no. - [jake] ah, one million. - [austin] we got nothing done. - i pulled some cables through. - okay here we go. ah, this sucks, that's bad. - (loudly coughs and groans) (yelling) all right here we go. ah, you didn't even put the
cpu plug in yet you pathetic (laughing) you're not pathetic. - [austin] i just blew my
nose into the same thing i used to wipe my hands. (jake groaning) - that was a bad idea, oh god. (sniffles) i got it in my nose. - okay i'll do it. - here, lay down, lay down, lay down. - no, okay. (grunting) ah! ah! put it in! - okay, usb3, going in. can you plug it in the power supply? (heavily breathing) - get the other one in. ah (beep). oh fudge come on. come on you (beep) 'ccini
alfredo, get in there. oh i got it! - yes! - (groaning) - all right, don't celebrate,
where's the, yeah yeah. where's the, screwdriver? - i don't know man you we're using it. [jake] matt, no! - [austin] 1.4 million, how
did we get to 1.4 million? how'd we get to number nine? here i'm dropping off for you, here go, - oh, that's for me thank you so much. how is it? - [matt] so while you guys scream, - oh it's terrible. - [matt] this is a-- - what the (beep), matt? - [matt] this is a trinidad
butch t scorpion pepper. - trinidad, (beep) you trinidad! - this is the worst thing
i've ever done for a video, i'm not playing right now. - [matt] i'm going to remind
you that you set these rules. - all right we're almost done. - we got it. (groans in pain) (heavy breathing) - here it needs to post,
jake, it just needs to post, and we're done. (coughing) - [austin] here, take it. - oh, it's even worse when i comes up, i don't need your bucket! - what is the time, matt? i will murder you! what is the time?! - [matt] twenty seconds. - oh! - it's okay, it's okay,
gimme a screwdriver, gimme a screwdriver. screwdriver! screwdriver! (jake groans) - i'll jump it, i'll
jump it, i'll jump it, yes! yes! - [jake] is it posting? - so this doesn't look very cable managed. - [austin] how dare you? - we got some loose
cable hanging out here. the case, the sides aren't on. i don't see anything on the screen. - [austin] give it a second,
it's fine, it's still posting. (whip cracking) - [matt] so unfortunately,
it did not post in time. - [austin] it's posting! - (burping) rules are rules. - ah! oh! oh! it's posting, it posted! - [matt] cool, if only you had done that roughly fifteen-seconds ago. - he's fair, he's true, he's right. - so if we eat it, we win. - [jake] cheers, buddy. - [austin] no, no, no, dab
it off as much as possible, it's not cheating. it's the way the rules
were meant to be written. - [ken] that's not what
they mean by "the last dab". - [jake] (laughs) cheers. where's our bucket? - [matt] i would get on that because in another minute-and-a-half, you're going to have to have another one. clean it! - bucket is over here. - i'm never doing this again. give me the milk. - i mean that's pretty clean, right? - [matt] that looks great! jake's good at this. - should i spit my spit out? (exhales) - (mumbling) - i don't know what to do with my hands. - it's like a waterfall,
no not on the computer. 'sup ladies? you wanna go out with me? - okay jake, you take this computer home. (all laughing) - no! ah! thank you so much! - (burping) - subscribe to austin evans,
for more austin evans, if you like tech, if you
just like having a good time and hanging out with your pal
austin's the one that you got. i mean there's lots of choices,
so maybe look at them too, but there's also austin. if you wanna watch videos
that explore the science in movies, and see austin get decapitated, i would recommend going to vsauce3. that's my channel, there's a show called "could you survive the movies?", the episode is called
"could you survive alien?". - he cut my head off, it was fun. i can't talk. - and as always thanks for watching. - we're not doing this ever again. - i don't know if i'm going to cry. - [austin] can we put a do
not try this at home warning? (grunts)