 before this is over, i will be making some fanboys mad.  and i'm gonna start with a shot at big daddy red.  you could argue that nintendo  is the most important console maker of all time.  originally a trading card and toy company,  they found some initial success in gaming  in the midway space, but it was the one million units  of their first home console, the color tv series,  that locked in their destiny.  too bad the thing's a d.  and look, i'm sorry, but first generation consoles  really don't hold up and while our ranking system will account for
the lower expectations that gamers would have had at the time kind of an  opinions adjusted for inflation if you will at the end of the day a
major consideration has to be historical importance aside  how fun are the games today?  and the good news is that when we reach nintendo's third generation
offering the answer becomes very in large part  thanks to the inclusion of hardware scrolling backgrounds  look, i know that doesn't sound like a huge deal,  but this is what platforming looks like on the competition.  start on the left, jump over obstacle,  reach the right side of the screen, rinse and repeat.  woo-hoo.  meanwhile, on the nes, look at 'em go!  woo-hoo!  and upgraded cartridges would push its capabilities   even further, changing video games forever.   the famicom, or family computer as it was known in japan, quickly
took the crown for the best-selling console in history.  and, thanks to nintendo's savvy third-party publishing
negotiations, living room-friendly branding, and focus on content quality,  they would continue that success in the challenging north american
market.  in our minds, the nes marks the end of console gaming's infancy and
the beginning of its childhood years.  it was the start of huge franchises like final fantasy,  the legend of zelda, metroid, mario, and more.  and it was also affordable.  it's an a.  and the only reason is that as innovative as they were,  most of its best games are essentially obsolete.  every franchise that i just mentioned  got a bigger sequel on nintendo's very next console  that was better in almost every way.  and we're gonna get to that  after this quick message from our sponsor.  ridge, hey.  - is that a boring old bifold wallet in your pocket?  or are you just happy to see the alternative,  ridge's sleek and high quality wallets?  well, in any case, go to the link below  and use code linus to save 10% off your purchase  and get free shipping.  the super nintendo entertainment system  didn't change the formula much,  but it's more refined technology gave developers a platform  to focus on what's most important, making great games.  and this was clear right out of the gate with f-zero,  a flashy look at the future using the 3d power of mode 7,  and super mario world, which is still the best 2d mario game.  and the hits just kept coming,  with a library of games that ranges from still playable  to contenders for best ever in the rpg and 2d platforming genres.  there were some turds too, of course,  but super nintendo is our first s-tier.   and unfortunately, nintendo's last for a while.  with competition ramping up on all sides  and pirate flags flying high,  nintendo doubled down on their walled garden philosophy,  leading to the big error that, along with several others,  would tank this generation for them,  choosing proprietary cartridges over cds.  i get it, nintendo's lucrative licensing agreements  were easier to control when they ran the production line.  but cartridges cost many times as much and hold only a fraction of
the amount of data.  this resulted in developers making serious compromises to run on
nintendo's 64-bit machine.  which is a shame because the raw performance of the n64 was
actually at the top of its generation.  it just wouldn't be fully unlocked until decades later by community
modders.  sometimes limitations breed creativity though and the n64 ended up
with a very strong library.  at least if you focus on its goats. ocarina of time and mario 64
still come up in those conversations  and most first party titles on the system are or at least were
outstanding even if  yoshi got done kind of dirty. the problem is that the good third
party games for the console were  rare. get it? and we'd need to see a deeper library for a higher
placement.  it's gonna be a b. the good news is that nintendo learned.  for the gamecube, they worked on their relationships,  ensuring that it was easy to develop for,  and they even chose optical media,  albeit at a silly smaller size.  so the old purple lunchbox would end up  with a more complete library,  with some entries in long-running franchise  even considered their best,  like smash melee, metroid prime, and resident evil 4.  okay, the controller sucked donkey kong  for pretty much any game  that wasn't specifically designed for it,  but...  at least it wasn't as alien or flaccid as its older sibling?  b. it's a b. it's just too bad that nobody cared at the time,
leading nintendo to a major shift in  strategy that persists today. to avoid competing head-to-head with
microsoft and sony's hd systems,  nintendo basically repackaged the cube into an overclocked
rectangle with some extra ram  and launched it alongside a motion controller that, by the way,
also  was originally designed for the gamecube.  at the time, the wii felt a little bit disappointing,  considering its "revolution" codename.  but if you felt that way,  you were probably a real gamer.  because for everyone else, it was something else.  it was fun.  it would be easy to dismiss the console  based on the mountain of wiggle-waggle shovelware  that was published for it.  but it was nintendo's first backwards-compatible home system  and  its early lead in sales incentivized third-party developers to put
in the work to build out its  library even if the ports weren't the best ones available now sadly
for emulation and e-shop  enthusiasts many of its most interesting titles are trapped there
because of the novel control  scheme but we are still putting the wii on the a tier for all the
retirement homes that are still  bowling and golfing unfortunately like the people in those homes
the wii's gimmicks  didn't get kind of old and its successor was probably nintendo's
lowest point it had more  power than the aging 7th gen hardware that nintendo launched it
against but it also had  confusing branding and a quasi portable controller screen gimmick
that most games completely failed  to take advantage of not helping matters new first party games were
slow to show up due to  a focus on hd remasters which led to slow sales which led to poor
third-party support  again it did get some unironically great games including kicking
off mario kart 8 decade of  nintendo refusing to give us another mario kart but today there are
fewer and fewer reasons to  leave an unmodded wii u plugged in other than its ability to output
older wii games via hdmi  we're going to give it a c luckily the switch immediately switched
up the conversation  delivering on the hybrid handheld promises of the wii u and putting
nintendo back on top  it launched with what is arguably the best game from one of the
strongest gaming franchises ever  and has followed it up with banger after banger after banger the
enormous install  base has prompted developers to move heaven and earth to shrink
their games to work on it  resulting in sometimes a pretty good experience especially if you
consider that the console  is little more than an nvidia shield tablet with custom firmware
and controllers it is under  powered compared to the machines of today and even the machines of
its time but it is a great way to  pack mario and the gang into the screen safe slot of your ltt
backpack lttstore.com we are giving  the switch our second s for revitalizing the handheld gaming market
as for the future it  remains to be seen whether nintendo can retain the switch's
momentum against the rise of pc handhelds  and the rumors of sony's return not to mention microsoft's entry
but i'm hopeful surely the good  bad good bad pattern can't continue speaking of things that
couldn't continue sega and oh boy do  they ever have weirder origins than i realized the japanese giant
was founded by americans who sold  slot machines to u.s army bases which is why they were at one point
called ser vices games  weird for traveling by the way but okay sega's first home console
like nintendo's was designed  to play stripped down arcade ports and the sg1000 was in that sense
better than the color tv with  interchangeable cartridges and a fair bit more power which is neat
but the mk3 or as you might  know it in the west the master system is where sega's sales went
parabolic we are giving the  sg1000 a d which won't surprise anyone and we're giving the master
system a c  which will surprise folks in the regions where it would go on to
have an exceptionally long life  with some kind of impressive peripherals everywhere else though it
suffered from  its focus on arcade style games and sega's notoriously bad habit of
supplanting their  systems a little too quickly just three years after the master
system sega launched the mega  drive or genesis for us yankerdoodles powered by the motorola 68000.  a familiar 16-bit chip that powered countless other arcade games
and home computers sega brought  blast processing to the party which is a real thing we think no one
is 100 sure what it was  but most likely it referred to dma or the ability to directly drive
a crt through brute force  regardless of the vdp's palette limitations it also had a more
powerful cpu than the  super nintendo which arrived two whole years later and  thanks to some clever design choices it even had backwards
compatibility with  master system games not that it needed it the genesis has a
phenomenal library that is  undeniably sega's best even beyond the blue blur there's a huge
variety of games designed to appeal  to a slightly more mature audience thanks to sega's looser third-
party ecosystem and many  genesis games just straight up play better than their snes
competition even if they usually look  a little worse  i wanted so badly to put it in the s tier but before we can rank it
we need to talk about some  of the truly baffling moves that sega made late on in its life
cycle first they launched a cd add-on  that was actually a mild success allowing its aging 80s hardware to
push past the newer snes  in some key ways like improved sprite scaling as well as cd quality
audio and the ability to play  interactive fmv video games if you're into those  but then as this sort of next-gen stopgap sega designed and
launched the 32x add-on  around the same time that their completely next-gen full 32-bit
console the saturn would  launch in japan making matters much worse sega surprise launched
the console four months early  in north america only for sony to immediately counter by announcing
the playstation would be just  299  so if you're confused trying to follow exactly what i'm talking
about here imagine how consumers  felt at the time what did i just buy and what is this new thing
sega in one stroke burnt the  goodwill that they had fought so hard to claim from nintendo and
suddenly they were behind  by a lot genesis a as for the saturn it was a complete bust
everywhere but japan which  i guess is what happens when you go from  we're gonna make the best darn 2d system for true arcade 2. oh my
god here comes sony and they've  got 3d now in hindsight the saturn has a pretty incredible library
of hidden gems that i would  highly recommend that you check out but in the 90s when 3d was the
new hotness  developers just couldn't be arsed to learn its eccentric 4-chip
architecture  and sega's penultimate effort would pave the way for the company's
overall exit  from the console hardware space we're giving it a c for come on it
at least deserved a chance  the saturn is the most underrated system that sega has ever made
maybe even by us and i'm saying that  knowing that most people would think that award goes to sega's
final effort the dreamcast with a  modem for network play built right in and a high quality vga
capable output it was truly ahead of  its time  and between great ports to the system not to mention a slew of
phenomenal new games  the dreamcast would get off to the strongest start yet in video
game history that is  until a big old black dvd player that we're gonna get to in a bit
don't worry arrived holding its  pink slip less than three years after its launch sega announced
that not only was the dreamcast  headed out behind the barn their entire console business was going
with it sega  we salute you for your service and we're giving the dreamcast a
strong b for being something that  is still worth dusting off to this day the good news is that in the
same year that sega admitted  defeat a new contender would pick up their torch microsoft was
looking to make a little gaming  machine of their own and what's cool is you can still see some of
that sega dna in the original  windows 2000 light machine six face buttons a focus on network play
and  even rumored dreamcast compatibility though that never came to
fruition in spite of the  fact that it used similar windows ce and directx development tools
i mean sure the xbox compared to  the fully custom chips that the competition was using was basically
a glorified pentium  3 computer with a big controller like what were they thinking big
but it was the most  powerful system of its time meaning that it often had the best
version of multi-platform titles  not to mention a solid library of exclusives this is before
microsoft settled into their safe spaces  of halo gears and forza and they pushed weird character platformers
and epic rpgs that competing  machines just couldn't even hope to run the xbox was off to a
rocking start a tier and that was  just the beginning just four years later came the xbox 2, sorry
360.  with easily the best online service and games delivery of that
generation a modest entry price and  developer friendly hardware the 360 was a no-nonsense gaming
machine for gamers  we're pretty much any multi-platform title would arrive either
first or better or both  even franchises that had been sony exclusive started  showing up on the microsoft machine. i mean sure it doesn't have a
huge list of its own exclusives, but  there are some doozies in there and microsoft's big push in japan
gave the 360 the best  japanese library of any xbox system. can someone please remaster
lost odyssey for crying out loud?  reliability issues aside the 360 is microsoft's finest and is an
easy s for the countless nights of halo 3 that kept  millions from proper rest  sadly, though, microsoft would pull a big dumb and try to make
their next-gen xbox one the one device for everything.  it had hdmi input for cable box pass-through, mandatory kinect
integration for voice and motion controls,  and worst of all, they angered gamers right out of the gate by
simultaneously announcing an always-online drm scheme that,  in hindsight, seems pretty similar to where we ended up, but i
guess people weren't ready to hear it.    this poor messaging, combined with underpowered hardware and a
higher price,  contributed to a major loss to the ps4, which had outsold it two to
one by the end of 2017.  and with sony on solid footing again after their early ps3
stumbles,  playstation exclusives started taking a lapse around microsoft's
struggling xbox franchises.  to microsoft's credit, the xbox team started dialing back the cable
box  connectness of the machine.  and did a much better job of supporting their windows friends,  but outside of gears and forza, it was kind of a wasteland.  microsoft clearly understood their advantage though,  in building cloud and data center services  and followed up their successful xbox live subscription  with game pass, an all you can eat gaming subscription  that frankly just smokes the competition for value.  unfortunately, this was too late in the cycle  and they knew it.  the one gets a c for "i wish i was playing as master chief, not
jameson locke."  which brings us to the 9th generation xbox, or boxes.  for the first time, we got two versions with wildly different
performance characteristics,  and for the second time, we got a focus on services rather than
games.  the series' continue microsoft's trend of cross-platform play  and backwards compatibility, which is great, but  also continue microsoft's trend of,  especially the latter being kind of spotty.  microsoft has gone on an aggressive  game studio gobbling spree,  which theoretically should lead to some really exciting  box mover titles, but we're kind of still waiting  to see them and apparently so are microsoft's customers  with combined sales of the two xbox series  falling well behind the ps5.  now it's still a bit early to give the xbox series  a definitive rank, but--  but, in spite of its poor sales, we're actually leaning towards a b
for best darn gaming pc that you can buy for 300 or 500 bucks, or sometimes even
less on sale.  we'll have links below for the series' and the other consoles that
you can still buy.  but, before we rank the rest of those, i want to go back in time to
some things that you can't buy.  in 1977, nolan bushnell started chuck e cheese's. that franchise
gets an f.  for it's crappy pizza and it's creepy rat.  i promise i'm going somewhere with this.  five years earlier, he also co-founded atari,  maker of pong, see, and the vcs,  or as many now call it, the 2600.  it was one of the most important machines  for getting games into people's homes,  even if the software feels painfully primitive now.  we almost gave it an a  for arguably most important console of all time.  but we're going with a b for best not play this unless you have an
academic interest.  as for the 5200, it came five years later with barely any tech
improvement and a non-existent  game library, meaning that we've got our first f tier here, folks.
quiet, you. as for the 7800,  it gets a c, and that's thanks only to its backwards compatibility
with the 2600.  as for the jaguar, hard to program for, expensive, and once again,
no game library.  that's another f, and that was the end  of their console-making days.  sorry, atari, i'll see you later.  now for some of atari's competitors, like the channel f.  is it for fun, or is it for its ranking?  it was the first proper home console  with a real processor and rom carts,  but other than that, there's not much else to say about it.  we're gonna go with a d.  magnavox odyssey, that thing came out in 1972.  good lord, that's five years before the 2600.  for that alone, it gets a c.  most odyssey 2 games have exclamation points in their titles,  so d, the intellivision, mattel's only console,  other than one built around scanning rfid cards.  we're gonna give that one a c.  and the connecticut leather company,  yes, that is what coleco stands for,  colecovision was a technical juggernaut  compared to its contemporaries,  and it gets a c as well.  enough of that though, let's jump forward a decade.  - the pc engine/turbografx-16  was mostly ignored in the west,  but in japan, outsold the mega drive  and had a robust library of games  that make good use of the cd add-on.  we're giving it a b.  the neo geo was super cool.  it literally brought an arcade machine's power  into your house and all it cost you was  nearly the same as an arcade machine.  b anyway.  as for the philips cd-i, that cost over two  thousand dollars in today's money.  - it's yours, my friend, as long as you have enough rubies.  - f, f, f, f, f, f, f, f, f.  as for the amiga cd-32, this one, i don't know.  it's possible it's amazing,  but at these kinds of prices for working units,  i'm just never going to know.  f for get f*** collectors.  finally, rounding out our  others list, we've got the 3do, and it's going to crawl into a d
for having a few decent games  and ports, even though it was a huge waste of money for both
consumers and for its creators.  talk about playstation! all right, i was almost there anyway.
pcfx d, there. the origin of the  playstation is truly a wild tale of corporate backstabbery and poor
business sense. through  its early years, sony was a  big player in electronics and music and had become one of japan's
biggest exporters.  their collaboration with philips on the invention of the compact
disc was revolutionizing the media  world, but it would take maverick engineer ken kutaragi to finally
turn its r&d engine toward  video gaming by forging a backroom deal to manufacture the super
nintendo's sound chip.  this sound chip led to a second, much more important deal with
nintendo.   one for sony to produce a cd-rom version  of the super famicom called the playstation.  now, as you may already know,  that deal did not go as planned.  and depending on who you ask,  you'll get a very different answer to the question of,  who screwed over who?  on the one hand, sony was the bigger company  and had been using its muscle  to impose very unfavorable contract terms.  including sole international rights to every game developed for the
system,  and full control of licensing for every music and film deal.  on the other hand, nintendo had a history of tight and exclusive
control over their consoles.  they were worried about sony using them as a stepping stone to a
dominant position in video  games. so they secretly sent emissaries to negotiate a more
favorable arrangement elsewhere.  one single day then.  after sony publicly announced their joint console at ces 1991,
nintendo slapped them in the face by abandoning both the contract and the years
of co-development.  they announced a partnership with sony's collaborator on the cd
format, philips, and sony was split on what to do next.  some of the old guard were looking for an excuse to retreat from
the video game space anyway, while others favored just bending the knee to
nintendo and trying to salvage something from the original deal.  there were even talks with sega of america about developing a
console together with them, but that idea was killed when the ceo of sega
apparently said,  "that's a stupid idea. sony doesn't know how to make hardware. they
don't know how to make software either. why would we want to do this?"  hindsight really is a hell of a drug, folks. as for kutaragi, i
think we all know where he  stood on this. he was still seeing red from his fresh embarrassment
at ces and wanted to build it  himself. importantly, he had a key ally. the president of sony
partially obfuscated  what he was doing from the sony board by moving his team from
headquarters to sony  music entertainment japan. and while they worked, some key things
happened.  the success of virtua fighter confirmed that 3d graphics was the
way forward, and the failure of the 3do and the jaguar proved that their console
would either live or die by third-party support.  so, a team from sony's record label was sent to hundreds of studios
to garner support. and their pitch? it was simple, but it was effective. they
promised easy development and fair promotion of first-party and third-party
games.  over 250 teams showed interest, and the rest is history.  just two days after their north american launch, sony had outsold
the sega saturn's entire five-month run.  in the uk, it outsold sega's console 3-to-1, and by the end of
their first year, sony had taken a whopping 20% of the american video game
market.  they were selling so many games that they, co-inventor of the cd,
needed to build new cd printing facilities to keep up with the outrageous
demand.  and even when nintendo's 5th gen competitor showed up two years
later, powered by superior 3d horsepower, not to mention iconic ips, the
playstation only picked up more steam.  by the end of its life in 2006, the playstation had sold over 102
million units.  more than double the sales of the n64 and the saturn combined and a
huge part of that success  is its enormous library of games. it's got more games than any
console that came before  or any console that came since reaching a final count of 7,918
titles.  and it wasn't just quantity either. i mean it's easy to find knocks
against the ps1 like  the atrocious loading times but what you cannot argue with is the
depth of its library.  not to mention its appeal to gamers who were, some of them, growing
out of nintendo's stubbornly  family-friendly approach. it's an s tier for two reasons. one,
because we didn't have a higher rank  and two, because if we ranked it anything else i would first be
murdered by my staff  and then dragged through the street by the rest of you. now, sony
knew the secret to the ps2's  early success was going to be its great value. it offered backwards
compatibility with the ps1,  thanks to using its older brother's cpu as an io controller, and
more importantly,  it was one of the cheapest dvd players available. so even though
the ps2's library might have taken  a few years to fill out due to its somewhat exotic architecture,
there were strong reasons  to buy it from day one, and buy it we did. the ps2 sales almost
immediately choked out  the dreamcast and would come close to tripling the sales of sega's
machine,  the gamecube and the original xbox combined.  the ps2 is still the most sellingest game console of all time,  though the switch is nipping at its heels,  and by the end of its decade-plus of support,  it had over 2,500 games to play,  with more in the goat conversation than probably any other machine.  the ps2 is an easy s-tier,  and based on our rating system, is the number one console of all
time.  oh, so that means it's downhill from here then, right?  that's right! here comes sony's first speed bump.  in their efforts to replicate the ps2's success by making it once
again a trojan horse for the latest optical media,  and full-on backwards compatibility by stuffing a ps2 into it,  not to mention the fact that they used a hard-to-develop-for
supercomputer chip,  the ps3's initial asking price ended up being a major friction
point for consumers.  making matters worse, the launch title lineup was weak.  and ports to the system were generally inferior  to those on the xbox 360.  so for years, the ps3 looked like it was the clear loser  of the seventh generation, a first for sony.  however, eventually sony studios would figure out  how to maximize the performance of its unusual cell processor  and would produce some impressive exclusives  helping to undo at least some of that damage.  actually, a lot of it.  i mean, if i was told that i could never play a video game  again unless it was on a ps3,  i would still have plenty to play,  much of which is pretty goated,  but it can't be an s, let's call it an a.  luckily though, sony would learn from some of its mistakes  and the ps4 would be a no-nonsense gaming-first oasis  in microsoft's weird, always-watching cable tv world.  sony studios immediately got to work  and there wasn't a year, maybe 2013 and 2019,  that didn't have several games  that made gamers sit up and go,  "shoot, i'm gonna need a ps4."  now, eventually we got a lot of those titles on pc,  but if n64 is a b and ps3 is an a,  ps4 has got to be an s.  and this is especially highlighted by the perception,  or maybe it's just us,  that sony's ninth-gen white monolith  feels more like a ps4  more pro-er. i mean, it's a more powerful but still x86 gaming
focused computer  it's got full compatibility with ps4 games, which is great  and we're only in year four with a pretty strong library of titles  but we can't help feeling a little desperate for some risk-taking
here instead of just more rehashing of the working formulas  i also don't love the direction they've taken their subscription
services  backwards compatibility  not only is severely lacking but it's locked behind reoccurring
payments and cloud saves  really you guys who do you think you are nintendo? you wish a tier  that is unless something big changes like if i stopped doing
segways to sponsors squarespace  creating your own website doesn't have to be difficult luckily with
squarespace it isn't  they're all in one platform makes it easy to get your website up
and running quickly  designing with their fluid engine site builder is easy also start
with a template and customize  every detail imaginable with drag and drop technology for desktop
or mobile you can also  use their asset library to manage all your files from one central
hub and use them across the  squarespace platform. with squarespace's analytic insights you can
see what's  working well and what needs a little tlc and if you need help  squarespace has got your back with helpful guides and a 24 hour
support team seven days a week  head to squarespace.com/ltt and get 10 off today now
we know you guys  are going to have different opinions of the best consoles and games
so we want to know  what your favorites are in the comments and if you like tier lists
hey why don't  you go check out the one where we ranked every generation of nvidia
gpus