- i haven't been this
excited about a product in literally years, because
for all of their successes, intel, amd, nvidia, none of them have been able to build a
product with the perfect balance of price, performance,
and of course, stock. but this? this is hot, just like our sponsor. the nzxt function keyboard. it's got hot swappable switch sockets, a detachable usb-c cable,
various rgb settings, and the ability to customize
your look with nzxt build. you can learn more at the link down below. there are three main qualities
affecting cpu performance. the number of cores, the
frequency of those cores and the micro architecture
that lets those cores actually do something instead
of just spinning in circles. like my kids. (kids laughing, toys clattering) you could think of the cores as the cylinders in a car's engine, the frequency as the car's top speed, and the micro architecture as the wheels that translate that power into a stupid amount of performance. stupid like you would be, if you didn't check out
our sponsor, cablemod. cablemod's new keyboard
cables are the easiest way to spice up your desk. with a ton of colors
now available on amazon, you can complete your keyboard setup today using the link down below. before you say anything, i'll acknowledge that there
are loads of other factors that contribute to the
strength of a given chip. cache, alus, memristors,
little tiny wires, and color all play important roles, but none of that matters for this product. let's open it up. oh, and let's open with a
message from our sponsor, ifixit. got bad battery life?
ifixit has you covered with batteries for
phones, drones, laptops, ipads, headphones, speakers,
toothbrushes, furbies, and more. check out the link below to
find the battery that you need. come here, come here. okay. big reveal. this right here looks like a usb-a port, but what it actually is, is a usb a-port. and the difference between those is something that is
going to blow your mind. like our sponsor, volta. volta offers reliable and
high quality magnetic cables for all your usb devices. and with their new us and uk offices, delivery is quicker than ever before. get 20% off on your order by checking them out
at the link down below. unlike other machines, powered by parts that are made of various precious metals that have to be mined from the earth, often in exploitative ways, this one is sustainably powered by 100% organic canadian cheese. smells good. let's get to testing. before that, this video
is sponsored by signalrgb. control and sync your favorite rgb devices all from one app. best of all, it's free. download signalrgb at the link down below. - here at ltt. we love mothers and boards. so when asus asked us if
they could sponsor a video about a motherboard, specifically their new rog
strix z690-e gaming wifi, we said, no (bleep) way, (bleep). we're not gullible (bleep) drinkers. of course we can do that,
you (bleep)ing (bleep). this board is built for the
latest intel 12th gen processors and with support for pci
express 5.0 and ddr5 memory, the connectivity options are just amazing. you've got five m.2 slots, including two on the bundled rog hyper m.2 card, the fastest usb type c ports available, plus wifi 6e and a two
and half gigabit lan port. i know this is a sponsored showcase, but i have to say the
illuminated acrylic display really tickles my pickle, you know? my favorite feature, though,
is the q-release button that makes swapping graphics
cards and m.2 modules a breeze. here, i'll show you. - while anthony installs that gpu, i wanna tell you about the
sponsor for this video, vessi. oh, this is awkward. that's better. vessi's everyday move
shoes are the perfect fit for the adventurous. stay dry and get your
$25 off vessi shoes today at vessi.com/linustechtips
with code linustechtips. oh, i should probably show you the shoes. let me just open up the
box with our sponsor. the jerryrigeverything knife. made using an aluminum zinc alloy. the jerryrig knife has a
tessellated hexagon pattern for a confident grip on the handle, easily replaceable stainless steel blades available at any hardware store and a built-in belt clip to remind you that life is a diy project. now, let's get this box open. - while linus opens that box, i wanna talk to you about
today's sponsor, nord sec. if you keep up with
the tech news, as i do, you know that hackers are always looking for new ways to compromise everything, from tech giant's servers
to grandma's computer. so it's a good thing
nord's security products are constantly updated
by a team of experts, setting new standards in
the security industry. and they've been recognized by top professionals in the field. one nord service that
you may not have heard of is nordlocker, a powerful file encryption and sharing service
that's a great alternative to google drive. and for enterprise, there's nordlayer, the easiest way to transition
your network to sase. you can even use nord
sec's white label team of cybersecurity experts
to build a custom solution for your business. go to nordsec.com/linus and use code linus for a huge discount on
all nord's offerings. - having trouble. (upbeat music plays) - that was great. look at this popcorn. - it is so fantastic. my favorite. - welcome back to bon appetech. we were just talking about the best way to overclock your tech potatoes
to the perfect consistency. in fact, it's actually a misconception- - that's right, linus. managing voltage, clock speed,
and thermal intolerances will help you achieve that perfect sizzle, just like our sponsor, sizzle popcorn, available in six different flavors: cheddar, ketchup, lightly
salted, maple syrup, and salt and vinegar. sizzle popcorn is made
with non gmo ingredients including canadian sourced
popcorn, canola oil, and flavor seasoning. it ships to canada, the us and the uk with free shipping for
orders over $34 canadian. do check out sizzle at the link below. now it's time to put
this puppy in the oven. and when we get back,
we'll find out how he did. (music resumes) (inaudible) (peaceful piano music) - [voiceover] the people
who matter the most to you deserve to feel like you
know that they deserve the best anyone could ever ask for from the person that they share their most special moments with in this wondrous cosmic
moment we call life. and when you want a
moment to last forever, wrap that moment up into a memory with a dbrand diy kit. choose simple elegance with the originals, one square foot of any
dbrand material for $19.95. or savor the deluxe kit, with
a six times larger sheet, an all-metal craft knife made with olfa, and a craftsman rule made
with tajima, for $99.95. available for only one day. from dbrand. - [voiceover] can't stand
stinky, out of control body hair? frustrated by hygiene products that leave you drier and
smellier than when you started? - yes, i am! - then you need manscaped's
ultra premium collection. the all-in-one skin and hair
kit for the everyday man that covers you from head to toe. this thing's got it all. two-in-one shampoo and
conditioner 'cause you're busy. body wash with cologne scent. (sniffs) hydrating body spray,
deodorant and a free gift. moisturizing lip balm. mm. (blows a kiss) visit manscaped.com/tech for
20% off and free shipping. you sick (bleep). - oh, oof. (groans) (cries out in pain) oh, pcs. it's what life's all about. i love it. i love it. i love it. pcs love me. yeah. oh. not everyone... not
everyone wants to build a pc. oh, oh. a lot of time building a pc. everyone's different. (voice echoes) - that's why you go to build redux. you got competitive pricing. you got the latest core i9. efficiency cores and performance cores. you got 8, 8, 16. it's so fresh. what? course there's a link below. buildredux.com/linus. go and configure your system out. hurry before i do mine. wait. 12th gen. 12th gen? 12th gen! i'm sorry, 12th gen! 12th gen! (voice echoes) i'm just kidding guys.
i'm fine. 12th gen's fine. and this has been fun, but jokes aside, i wanna talk to you about
something that means a lot to me. we've built something amazing
here at linus media group but we know that the whims
of the web are changing, and we wanna make sure that we can deliver the same great content to you on whatever platform you choose, even as the internet
shifts into a new paradigm. now, i didn't reveal this
when we announced ltt labs. but the real reason that
we are hiring engineers is so that they can continue the work that our community started
way back in 2014 on linuscoin. this is not a joke.
this is not a rug pull. if you buy our nft, that gives you the
chance to buy linuscoin. you'll be securing your place, hopefully, in the future of web 3.0. i mean you don't wanna get left behind like some kind of sucker. speaking of not sucking,
check out our sponsor. speaking of checking out,
let's check in with our- and speaking of checking in, here's a sponsor you'd love
to spend the night with. speaking of-
(audio begins to distort) speaking of, here's one thing
you should spend your cash on. our sponsor-
speaking of cash, and speaking of that, speaking of work, you're
gonna wanna check out that a sponsor speaks- that
(audio glitches) - hello?
(knocks on glass) is anybody here? what's going on? guys? guys, it's linus sebastian. hello? hey. help! help! (dark music plays)