- this is one of the most popular enthusiast gaming keyboards on amazon. but today, i have a simple question. is it better to buy the pre built, or is it better to build it yourself? welcome to episode 1 of buy
vs build, keyboard edition. i have 30 minutes, starting now. now, i've built a lot of
gaming pc's over the years, and usually that is a smart move, but as someone who's built half a mechanical keyboard in my life, i'm gonna need a lot of help. so, i'm gonna use the ai
to do my research for me. alright so, bing is telling
me i need a keyboard case, pcb, switch mounting
plate, mechanical switches, stabilizers, key caps, usb
cable, and a screwdriver. i could just go with this now. alright so, lemme just look
up the first one, here. so, can i get the epomaker? bing found it in literally one click. oh wait, is it in stock? oh, it's a pre-order! no! okay, so this is what i was afraid of. you don't just go and order what you need. you will pre-order something,
and it may take a month, it may take 6 months, it may take 9 months or 12 months before
your components come in. now, drop, previously known as massdrop, they're a little bit more i would say, of a mainstream brand. mechanical keyboards. oh, diy kits. okay, yes. yes, yes, yes. so, here's the thing. i conceptually know what i'm doing, which is a little different
than actually knowing what i'm doing. so, i want tactile switches. okay, so, bing was telling that i would like the holy pandas. good lord. i'm over, like, $230 just by throwing enough key switches in. wow. this is so much more
complicated than i thought. $105 just for my switches? maybe i don't need holy pandas. maybe i need crappy pandas. could i get cheap switches please? what are cheap switches? yes, speeds. there we go. how many is this? 35 unit. okay, imma do this one instead. i don't even know if these are good. i'm just gonna do these instead. okay, i'm up to $175 dollars. (cries) all right, all right, all right. what do i still need? so, i need key caps. (screams) why are they so expensive? should i go to etsy? okay, i'm gonna go to etsy. oh, my god. they've got squirtle in a key cap. okay, one extra key cap is fine, right? these are actually not terrible. oh, these are kinda nice, actually. the only thing is they're white. so, my keyboard is just gonna be black with white key caps and a blue squirtle. (screams and cries) all for $300. wait, i'm at $294 plus another... how much for my squirtle key cap? another $35. wow, this is so expensive. this video is sponsored by headphones.com. a few months ago, we took a
look at these, the focal bathys. holy (beep). (laughs) these are high-end audiophile headphones that also rock active noise cancellation. and, look, there are a ton of specs but, ultimately, they sound incredible. focal are famous for their
audiophile grade speaker drivers, which deliver impressive clarity, without sacrificing punchiness, even when over bluetooth. but what makes the
bathys even more special is the usb dac mode, which takes sound
quality to another level. even beyond the 3.5mm jack
which is, of course, on board. just plug into your device
via usb c, and you get crispy, high-res audio with minimal latency, something that's really
helpful for me when i use these to edit video, like the
video i'm editing right now. the bathys also has a slick
design that takes inspiration from focal's passive closed-back line but with the addition of
the logo that lights up. the headband and yoke structure are made out of light-weight, but sturdy,
materials like magnesium. not to mention the incredible quality, thanks to them being built in
the focal factory in france. if you're ready for a serious
audio upgrade, you're in luck because the bathys are
currently on sale for 20% off their regular price at headphones.com. i would act quick though. the sale only runs through
this sunday, june'th. definitely be sure to check them out at the link in the description. and, of course, huge thank
you to headphones.com for sponsoring this video. (elevator music) so this is the razer huntsman v2, which is currently available
on amazon for $200, which is a lot of money for a keyboard. but when you come to the
high-end of this stuff, $200 is a drop in the bucket compared to what you can spend
if you were really motivated. so, there are a few things
going for the razer huntsman v2. so, you do have access to
easily swap out your key caps. so, if all you're looking
for is to buy a nice, pre-built keyboard, and
maybe you wanna tweak it with a couple of additional key caps, you can do that very easily. but the real advantage, in my opinion, with building a keyboard is
to fully make it your own. the build quality, the
fit and finish, the sound. you can do so much to, not
only change the switches in the actual board, but also every minute detail along the way to make sure it's
exactly the way you want. now, i'm not gonna lie to you and say that this is an easy process. and, again, i've only really built, like, one keyboard in the past but i also am very enthusiastic
about using keyboards. i love it and it's something
that i want to learn more about so, for this video, you
can almost kind of treat me as like the average enthusiast
who wants to get into this who's just trying to decide, "should i go out and buy the pre-built, which is well-reviewed,
is very solid, that i'll be very happy with, or should i strike out on my own? walk into the wild, dark abyss of not knowing how to do it yourself and come out the other
side a changed man?" only one way to find out. - this is where i get
to judge your tastes. - i'm not gonna be judged by
anyone who is wearing that hat. so, i'm just saying, if
you're wearing that hat, i am not gonna accept your judgment. my base is, the tried and true, drop ctrl. i acknowledge that this is, maybe, not the world's most
impressive base but hear me out. it was the only thing that
i could actually get in stock that was not months backordered. let's take a look at the keyboard
that i have to work with. starting out with my drop ctrl. so, this is the base of my keyboard. now, importantly, this is
exactly what i was looking for when it comes to the tkl layout, which is my preferred way of typing. you'll see it's really, very, very basic. so, it is all metal. sounds a little hollow. - [ken] that's my biggest
complaint with it. - so these are my kailh copper switches. so, these are specifically
the speed copper. now, i ordered these because, as a budding keyboard enthusiast, i relied on my good buddy, bing, to tell me what would be good
and bing said these are great. (ken laughing) - [ken] wait, hold on. hold on, hold on. so, you, austin evans. - yep. - [ken] tech youtuber. - yes, that's me. - [ken] who has a lot of friends. - lots of friends. - [ken] you know, in the creator space. - i didn't call any of them. - [ken] yes, that they've definitely built a lot of keyboards before. did you not think to... - no, because, ken, i'm trying to
make this an informative video and not everyone can
just call up randomfrankp and ask for his opinion. - [ken] but they can watch him. - i'm not gonna watch videos. you think i've been doing
do research for this? i used the power of ai to
guide me to the promised land. so, these are my switches. - oh, those actually sound pretty nice. - it's pretty good, right? - so, speed switches? - speed. - yeah, yeah, speed. - i am speed. - uh, actu- - i'm lightning mcqueen. i'm speed. - the actuation is higher up so the press happens way higher. are you lubing any of these switches? - oh. - are you lubing switches? - how funny you mentioned that that is actually going to happen. so i've got myself some krytox 22, i read it upside-down, 205. the very famous lubricant
that bing told me was popular and that i've heard of before
so i know it must be good. and i got an entire random
kit of tools off of amazon. - [ken] i'm surprised
you're not using vaseline. - i... that's the scuffed version of this video. this is not building a
keyboard on hard mode. if i was doing that, i would be soldering but soldering is scary because hot and it smokes a little bit and i don't like soldering because i'm not very good at it. but instead, if i wanted to,
say, install this switch, it'd be very straight forward. all i would need to do is line it up and then i just go. (switch pops) boom. and then, if i had a key
cap, which i don't have here, i just do this. i've got my keyboard deck, i have wide variety of speed switches, i also have my lubricant, but what i'm missing is
all the other accoutrement to complete this set up. which is where the key caps come in. these are black and white,
super high-quality key caps. well, i would say, not a
massive fan of the font. it looked a little different online. so, it's a very, sort of, complex shape when you look at it from the top. so, it's kind of scooped up and then it's very much, sort
of, like, a scoopy little boy where, you know, you... it captures your fingertip
and it's just like. so, i've got all of my key caps here, but wait. oh, wait. oh, i'm stupid. oh, i don't have all my key
caps 'cause there's one more. the piece de resistance, my friend. - [ken] the piss? - [joanna] that's what
i heard too. (laughs) - the piece... (ken and joanna laughing) the piece. piece de resistance. behold, my friends, the one key cap that is going to pull this
entire build together. oh, okay. - [ken] is this how you proposed to karen? - yes, with a little squirtle key cap. look how cute that is. look how cute that is. now, is the most expensive
single item in this video? oh, i think it was. and did this take weeks and
weeks to show up from etsy? it sure did. but, this is such a cool thing. so, you can see, if you get really close, it is a full 3d little squirtle on, what looks to be, like, i don't know, like, the ocean floor or something. so, i believe it's all
acrylic and oh my god. - [ken] okay, so, how
much did that cost you? - don't worry about it. let's try this guy out. let's try this guy out. and now. oh, look at that. i'm basically done. but, one thing i'm missing,
and as everyone knows, if your keyboard is not on
desk mat, you're not a gamer and you're gonna be asked to leave, which is why i have purchased this. it is a bitwit. bitwit. noted friend of the channel, kyle bitwit. (indistinct) his name is mr. bitwit. fun fact, last time i hung out with kyle he had to give me a ride
because i got my car towed. so, i paid him back by
buying one of his desk mats, which are available at the
link in the description at bitwit.tech. he didn't give me a discount though. i paid the full price for this. in all seriousness though, if
you're gonna go as in-depth as building your own keyboard,
you should try to put it on some kind of slightly softer surface. ooh, that's nice. look at that. now, my friends, it's
time to cue the music and begin the keyboard building montage. (intense music) let me show you how to
properly lube a switch. take it from a guy who learnt
how to do this 10 minutes ago. so, i have this little jig,
little form, little template to pop my switch out. so, i'm just gonna line it up and then just push it and it comes loose. so, there are a few pieces
inside of the switch. so, there's the outer plastic piece, there's the little stemmy guy, there's a spring and
then there is the base. this is the actual where the metal touches to form the actual connection. so, gonna do this is i'm
gonna get a little bit of lube on my tiny brush. so, i'm gonna just lube around
that little center post. now, i'm going to lube the spring 'cause, obviously, i
want it to be springy. got my spring, and next,
i'm gonna do my little stem. my stab, my, i don't, not sure
what i'm supposed to call it. gonna reassemble this, making sure that i don't do it backwards 'cause i did that the first time and accidentally got my key
stuck and it wouldn't open. and then, the whole things
goes together like this. and now i will go ahead and
insert it into my keyboard. i am doing the less important keys first so in case i learn that i want
way more lube or something, i can still tweak it and tune the ones that are actually important. but if i line this up, there we go. oh, that's not bad. i've got six down and 81 to go. think what that means is i'll see tomorrow when i'm done lubing all my switches. (standby noise) behold, my friends. the ultimate keyboard experience
for ultimate aural bliss. let's plug this in and see it come to life
for the first time. woo-hoo. all right, let's get started. okay, ready, and. woo. i will say, man, that space bar sounds bad. ugh, okay. i'm happy with how this went but, if i were to do it again,
or if i had some more time and, maybe, a few extra bucks, there's some changes i would make. but i'm not gonna tell ken any of that. oh, hello there. hi, friend. have you come to see what the future of keyboard gaming is like? so, i'm still preparing but
if you'd like to take a look, i can give you a tour right now. - [ken] okay. - so, here's the one-size-fits-all option. it's a razer thing. you can try it, not important. or, you could experience the
world's most unique keyboard, specifically designed by a true artist known as austin cornelius evans. - that's not my name.
- [ken] that's your middle- (indistinct) - i just made that up but it sounded funny and i'm just gonna confidently continue to talk directly into the camera. - i haven't looked at the
huntsman in a long time, and i certainly haven't tried the v2 but oh, that does sound pretty good. - yeah, if you're a pleb who just wants to use a regular keyboard. - that space bar is a little
better than it was before too. - you know what? no, i don't think that's... i think you just need more
character in your space bar, which is why i have
engineered my space bar to be full of character and- - okay, okay, okay. - yeah, go ahead. - we're gonna go down. - okay. (keyboard clicking) - oh, yeah. it's creamy, i like it. - it's the first time i've heard that. - very creamy. (keyboard clicking) (space bar clicking loudly) - that's my character. so, see, i'm, personally, a fan
of when i hit the space bar, i want you to know it. i want everyone in the room to know it. - you didn't work on the stabs. - go ahead, go ahead. - when you try and compare these- - i've got the typings.gg up. feel free to type away and
experience some aural bliss. - i need a wrist rest. (keyboard clicking) no, no. okay. the rattling reverberates so much that it messes
- character. - with my head a little bit. like, i think you did good with everything that didn't have stab in it. i'll give you that. - yeah, i didn't know what stabs were. - i could tell. but luckily enough, if
you really did wanna go and improve this to use it daily, you actually can just go on amazon. here, like, these are ones that i bought. the durock v2 because they were available for next day shipping. literally, i mounted this
to my board, which i, to be fair, i don't know what
kind of stabs are in here, specifically because it's been a while but i think you can actually
put these in the control or, at least, some kind
of alternative stab. - yeah, you've experienced aural bliss. why don't you try the razer and give your thoughts on that? - so, here's the thing. there is some pinging but
it's not as bad as yours. while this might not be the
best purchase for 200 bucks, if this is cheaper than
the board that you built, i'd still get this one. - well, it's cheaper anyway (indistinct) - hold on, hold on. wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. we have some added value. you just doubled the
value of that keyboard. - with that super cool squirtle switch. if we were to have this conversation five, maybe even three, years ago, i think pre-built keyboards were decent but the thing is, they've
gotten so much better. so speaking of- - like this one. - oh, dude. - so, this is the nuphy halo 75. i almost forgot the name
of it 'cause i haven't- - there's a lot of nuphy keyboards. - there are a lot of nuphy keyboards but this guy is absolutely nuts. so, we spent about 150, 160 bucks on this. it's pre-built. this thing sounds amazing and
it's all done in the factory. lubing, like, all of the
stabs are perfect, like. - even the print quality of the key caps of, like, the lettering
and stuff looks so nice. - nuphy is on a whole other
game with their keyboards. look, here, here. listen to this, right. (keyboard clicking) - it's so good. so what's your opinion then? do you think it's better
to buy or to build? - if you're willing to commit to research and really finding what your preference is and, maybe, a little
bit of trial and error. - and thousands of dollars
on buying random things - not necessarily.
- on kickstarter that may or may ever show up. - not necessarily. i think that you can built
a pretty decent keyboard for less than 200 bucks but you have to make some
compromises along the way and you also need to do some research. - less than how much? 200 bucks? - 200 bucks. is this more than 200 bucks? 300 bucks?