i'm on a mission to show the world how engrossing 
human management of sewage can be, and in fact,   we've followed the flow of domestic wastewater 
through sewers, lift stations, and primary   treatment in previous videos on this channel. if 
you've watched those videos or others i've made,   you know i like to build scale demonstrations of 
engineering principles. i did some testing for   the next step of wastewater treatment to see if 
i could make it work, and the results were just...   bad. even with the blue dye disguising the 
disgustingness of this demo, operating a   small-scale wastewater treatment plant in my 
garage is probably the most misguided thing i've   ever done for a video. so i got to thinking about 
other ways humans co-opt microorganisms to convert   a less desirable liquid into a better one, and 
there is one obvious equivalent: making alcoholic   drinks. so i've got a couple of gallons of apple 
cider, a packet of yeast, and a big glass vessel   called a carboy. even if you don't imbibe, whether 
by law or by choice, i promise you'll enjoy seeing   the similarities and differences between cleaning 
up domestic wastewater and the ancient art form   of fermenting beverages. i'm grady, and this 
is practical engineering. in today's episode,   we're talking about secondary wastewater 
treatment... and a little bit about homebrewing too. this video is sponsored by hellofresh, america's 
#1 meal kit. more on them later. you probably don't think about cellular 
biology when you consider civil engineers,   even though we're made of cells just like everyone 
else. we're associated more with steel, concrete,   and earthwork. but, the engineers who 
design wastewater treatment plants,   and the operators who run them, have to know a 
lot about microbes. here's why: the worst part   about sewage isn't the solids. (they can be pretty 
easily removed in settling basins, as i've shown   in a previous video). it's not even the pathogens 
- dangerous organisms that can make us sick.   (those can be eliminated using disinfection 
processes like uv light or chlorine). the worst   part about sewage is the nutrients it contains. 
i'm talking about organic material, nitrogen,   phosphorous, and other compounds. you can't just 
release this stuff into a creek, river, or ocean   because the microbes already in the destination 
water like bacteria and algae will respond by   increasing their population beyond what the 
ecosystem would ever see under natural conditions.   as they do, they use up all the oxygen dissolved 
in the water, ruining the habitat and killing   fish and other wildlife. nutrient pollution is one 
of the most severe and challenging environmental   issues worldwide, so one of the most critical 
jobs wastewater plants do is clean nutrients   out of the water before it can be discharged. 
but, because they are dissolved into solution   at the molecular scale, nutrients are much harder 
to separate from sewage than other contaminants. like domestic wastewater, making 
a fermented beverage starts with a   liquid full of dissolved nutrients that we want 
to convert into something better. in this case,   the nutrients are sugars that we're trying to 
convert into alcohol. i should point out that   making cider is technically not brewing since 
there's no heat used to extract the sugars. but,   the fermentation process we're talking about in 
this video is the same, no matter whether you're   making beer, wine, or even distilled spirits. it 
all starts out with some kind of sugary liquid.   the way we measure the nutrient concentration 
in brewing is pretty simple. dissolved sugars   increase the density or specific gravity of the 
liquid. this glass tool is called a hydrometer,   and it floats upright when suspended in a 
liquid. just like a ship sits a little higher   in seawater than it does in freshwater, 
a hydrometer floats to a different height   depending on the density of the fluid. the 
more sugar, the higher the hydrometer rises. on the other hand, characterizing the strength 
of sewage is equally as important but a little   more complicated. for one, not all nutrients 
change the density of the fluid equally.   but more importantly, there are a lot more of 
them than just sugar, and they can all exist   at different strengths. so rather than try and 
separate all that complexity, we usually measure   what matters most: how much dissolved oxygen would 
organisms steal from the water to break down the   nutrients within a sewage sample. the technical 
term for this is biochemical oxygen demand or   bod. in general terms, treatment plant operators 
measure the amount of oxygen dissolved in a sewage   sample before setting it aside for a 5-day period. 
during that time, critters in the sample will eat   up some of the nutrients, robbing the dissolved 
oxygen as they do. the difference in oxygen before   and after the five days is the bod. once you 
know your initial concentration of nutrients,   whether sugars or... other stuff... you can 
work on a way to get them out of there. in both sewage and brewage, we expropriate   tiny biological buddies for this purpose. in 
other words, we use them to our advantage.   wastewater treatment plants rely primarily 
on bacteria with some protozoa as well. there are a myriad of secondary treatment 
processes used around the world, but one   is more common than all the rest, and it 
has the best name too: activated sludge.   after the primary treatment of 
removing solids from the flow,   wastewater passes into large basins where enormous 
colonies of microorganisms are allowed to thrive.   at the bottom of the basins are diffusers 
that bubble prodigious quantities of   air up through the sewage, dissolving as 
much oxygen as possible into the liquid   and maximizing the microorganisms' capacity to 
consume organic material. this combination of   wastewater and biological mass is known as 
mixed liquor, but that's just a coincidence   in this case. either way, you definitely 
don't want to be drinking too much of it. fermentation of an alcoholic beverage - 
the process where sugars are converted to   ethanol - works a little bit differently. first, 
the microorganisms doing the work in fermentation   are yeast. these are single-cell organisms from 
the fungus kingdom, in some ways similar but   in many ways quite unlike the bacteria and 
protozoa in a wastewater treatment plant. in fact,   brewers work pretty hard to keep equipment clean 
and sanitized so that bacteria can't colonize   the brew. the foam you see in the carboy before i 
filled it with apple juice is a no-rinse sanitizer   meant to kill unwanted microorganisms before 
pitching the wanted ones in. the yeast themselves   will even take advantage of the antimicrobial 
effects of the very ethanol they produce. another difference between the processes is air. 
except at the very beginning, when the yeast are   first expanding their population, fermentation 
is an anaerobic process. that means it happens   in the absence of oxygen. a wastewater treatment 
plant adds air to speed up the process. however,   yeast exposed to oxygen stop producing alcohol, 
so the vessel is usually sealed to minimize the   chances of that. the bubbles you see are carbon 
dioxide that the yeast create in addition to the   ethanol. an airlock device lets the carbon dioxide 
vent so it can't build up pressure without letting   airborne contaminants inside. as the sugars 
are converted and co2 gas leaves the vessel,   the density of the liquid drops, and that 
change can be measured using a hydrometer.   my cider started at a specific gravity 
of 1.06 and fermented down to 1.00,   meaning it has an alcohol content 
of around 8% by volume. however,   just like the outflow from an activated 
sludge basin, it's not quite ready to drink. once the microorganisms have done their job and 
the liquid is nearly free of nutrients or sugars,   you need to get them out. in both brewing and 
wastewater treatment, that usually happens through   settling. i have a separate video that goes into 
more detail about this process, but the basics are   pretty simple. most solid particles, including 
microorganisms, are denser than water and thus   will sink. but, they sink slowly, so you have to 
keep the liquid still for this type of separation   to work well. wastewater treatment plants use 
settling tanks called clarifiers that send the   mixed liquor slowly from the center outward so 
that it drops the sludge of microorganisms to   the bottom as it does, leaving clear effluent to 
pass over a weir around the perimeter to leave   the tank. similarly, you can see a nice layer of 
mostly dead yeast on the bottom of my fermentation   vessel, typically called the lees or trub. 
homebrewers use a process called racking, which is   just siphoning the liquid from the fermentation 
vessel while leaving the solids behind. in both cases, these microorganisms 
are not all dead. that's where the   "activated" in activated sludge comes from. 
a rotating arm in the clarifier pushes the   sludge to a center hopper. from there, it 
is collected and returned to the aeration   chamber to seed the next colony that will treat 
new wastewater entering the tanks. of course,   not all that sludge is needed, 
so the rest must be discarded,   creating a whole separate waste disposal challenge 
(but that's a topic for another video). similarly,   the yeast at the bottom of my fermenter are not 
all dead and can be reused in another batch.   commercial breweries and homebrewers alike 
often use yeast over and over again. however,   they mutate pretty quickly because of their short 
lifetime, so the flavor can drift over time. at this point, both the wastewater and my hard 
cider are quote-unquote nutrient-free. they are   generally ready to be safely released into a 
nearby watercourse and my tummy, respectively.   however, there are some final tasks that may be 
wanted or needed in both cases. as you can see,   my hard cider doesn't look quite like what you 
would buy in a can or bottle at the grocery store.   i'm not going to carbonate it in this video, 
but that is an extra step that many cidermakers   and most beer brewers take. i will add an enzyme 
that helps clear up the haze from the unfiltered   apple juice. it doesn't make it taste any 
different, but it does look a lot nicer. like the finishing steps of homebrewing, many 
wastewater plants use tertiary treatment processes   to target other pollutants the bugs couldn't 
get. depending on where the effluent is going,   standards might require more purification than 
primary and secondary treatment can achieve on   their own. in fact, wastewater treatment plants 
have been experiencing a relatively dramatic   shift over the past few decades as they treat 
sewage less like a waste product and more like   an asset. after all, raw sewage is 99.9 percent 
water, and water is a valuable resource to cities.   in places with water scarcity, it can be 
cost-effective to treat municipal wastewater   beyond what would typically be required so 
that it can be reused instead of discarded. a few places across the world have potable reuse 
(also known as toilet-to-tap) where sewage is   cleaned to drinking water quality standards 
and reintroduced to the distribution system.   wichita falls, texas and the international 
space station are notable examples. however,   most recycled water isn't meant for human 
consumption. plenty of uses don't require   potable water, including industrial processes and 
the irrigation of golf courses, athletic fields,   and parks. many wastewater treatment plants are 
now considered water reclamation plants because,   instead of discharging effluent to a stream or 
river, they pump it to customers that can use it,   hopefully reducing demands on the potable 
water supply as a result. in many countries,   purple pipes are used to distinguish non-potable 
water distribution systems, helping to prevent   cross-connections. and sometimes you'll see signs 
like this one to prevent people from getting sick. on the other hand, practical engineering's 
"effervescent effluent," when enjoyed responsibly,   is perfectly safe to drink. cheers! but you don't want a beverage without 
a home cooked meal, so it's time for   everyone's favorite segment of me trying to cook 
while my wife tries to capture that on video. we're thankful for hellofresh, 
the sponsor of this video,   for converting cooking from a chore into one of 
our favorite ways to spend family time together.   we're even trying out a new kitchen 
stool for our little helper. "i wonder if you're going to regret 
leaving that pan right there." leisure time is a little less leisurely with 
a baby (something that's soon to be twice as   true for us), so we love that hellofresh 
meals come together quickly. they even   have options for 20-minute meals and low 
prep because anyone with a toddler knows   how hard it is to keep them busy. my wife 
was not so approving of all of my methods. "a cup full of dirty ice!?" they also have options for family-friendly 
meals, pescatarian, vegetarian and more,   so it's a really nice way to jump 
start a change in your diet or just   try something new. "ooh yummy. can 
you pick the onions out of mine?" the pre-portioned ingredients mean 
there's less prep and less food waste,   and the packaging is already recycled 
content and most of it is recyclable as well. "did you know when i was little, i could do this 
with my eyes closed? there, that looks fair." go try it yourself at hellofresh.com. if you use 
code practical16, you'll get up to 16 free meals   plus 3 surprise gifts. that's 
hellofresh.com and use my code   practical16. thanks, hellofresh, and thank 
you for watching. let me know what you think.