- today, we are building
a gaming pc by the book. so as a resident dummy, i feel like this will be a very useful bit of information. a quick trip to my local
library has given me all the info i could ever want. how to build a pc for dummies. power supply, that seems useful. aha! a bag of chips: adding ram and a cpu. so we've got celeron processors, core 2 duos and core 2 quads. well, what about core i7? so we gotta remember
this book is from 2009. so while some of the general advice actually i do think will be helpful. a lot of the specific references to things that just simply don't exist are not. i don't think amd has made a phenom processor since 2012? so i'm gonna go with an i5-11600k. i know, i'm reading it correctly, okay? i know it looks a little bit weird. - [ken] jesus christ, really? - i am reading this book the way that a dummy is meant to be read. - [ken] that's not helping the cause. never trust a book that's upside down. - all motherboards have
a maximum amount of random access memory they can handle. unless nasa has chosen you to control the next shuttle launch,
a board that supports three or four gigs of
ram should be sufficient. real techno-nerds or ultra-power users might demand support for
up to six gigs of ram. - [ken] techno-nerd. - let's go launch a space shuttle. ken, - [ken] wait, what did you get again? - can i get a gundam motherboard? wait, look, wait, hang on. oh my god, ken. it's supports up to 128 gigs. i can launch like a whole
fleet of space shuttles. next up i need to choose a graphics card. i can choose a 3d video
card from nvidia or ati. what's this amd thing? amd makes cpus, they make gpus now too? you can pick one up at
a local computer store for well under $75. - [ken] well, times have really changed. - well with great power comes great debt. with one fewer kidney
than i walked in with, my next task is to avoid
the biggest pitfall of all. so the book does tell me not
to listen to sales people. avoid the computer sales experience. although used car sales people seem to rank the lowest, computer sales
people are not much better. thankfully we're at micro center, so that's not really a concern. hello, good, sir. - how are you? - i'm not supposed to listen to you 'cause you're not helpful apparently to, according to the book but could i find a hard drive or a floppy disc by chance? - you can find a hard drive.
- oh my goodness. one terabyte. it will set me back less than $80. it set me back 49.99. - [ken] wow, you're saving money. - i'm saving money, this is great. i need a copy of windows. do you have xp or vista? apparently vista is what
all the cool kids are using. - unfortunately, we only
have 10 and windows 11. oh, 11, that's a bigger number. can i get a windows 11 dvd? - absolutely. - wait, are you serious? - [ken] that makes sense. - well, i okay, perfect. with my pc components under control. my next task is to find the
cutting edge accessories to really bring my game to the next level. i found it. the track ball. now i thought i was looking
for a track ball mouse. however, clearly this says track
ball, not track ball mouse. so i'm gonna game on this. what could possibly go wrong? - [ken] everything. - would you like to know
my options for cases? - [ken] yeah. - pizza box. - [ken] oh gosh. - shoebox, desktop, tower. - [ken] wow.
- i hate it, i hate it. - [ken] pizza, i miss
the pizza box ones, dude. - [austin] these were not names in 2009. - [ken] oh it has a drive bay. look at that. - that's actually pretty good. - [ken] oh, you know
what, real talk though? - wait, but where am i
gonna put my floppy disc. - [ken] put it here. - that's where my optical
drive disc goes, ken. with my pizza box case, i
only have one component to go. oh my god, oh my god. i didn't... - [ken] yeah? (austin sighs) - it tells me that the power
supply's included in the case. a pre-installed power supply not only eliminates a step of building your pc, but also ensures you get a power supply of the proper rating. what? that was bad advice for 2009. you buy a case that has a power supply of the correct rating? how's the case supposed
to know when you're... (austin makes irritated sound) all right. so i gotta
buy my own power supply and i gotta do it by myself. i'm a dummy. so apparently my case is supposed to come with a power supply of 300 watts, which is enough for every build. i don't believe that. do you have power supplies that i could actually install myself? apparently it's a really risky proposition but i think i might be
able to be up for it. - absolutely. - okay, thanks. 750? that's twice as much as
any real computer can need. 850? this future is incredible. a thousand watts, one point 25 gigawatts. okay, i gotta calm down. i gotta calm down. as if hundreds of pages of how to build a pc for
dummies wasn't enough, i'm armed with one more piece of research. an hour long dvd giving the step by step on how to build a pentium screamer. this video is sponsored by the new lenovo legion 5 pro. have you been in the market
for a great gaming experience? then the legion 5 pro
might just be for you. this laptop is packing up to an rtx 3070 and an 8-core ryzen 7, so you're
gonna have enough power to play pretty much any
game you can throw at it. add in the fact that this laptop supports lenovo's legion ai engine which helps to optimize
your cpu and gpu's power to ensure the fastest performance possible in 16 of the latest aaa titles. but laptops aren't only about performance. the legion 5 pro comes in a sleek and minimalist package with 3d audio that lets you connect a bluetooth speaker to give you that aural
bliss that you deserve. your hands won't be left
out of the fun either with a full rgb keyboard with
sub millisecond response time. and with almost nine
hours of battery life you won't have to worry about it dying while you're in the middle of class. once you've picked up your legion 5 pro you'll be ecstatic to know that getting started couldn't be easier. it ships with windows
11, meaning you won't have to worry about upgrading at all, and it comes with three
months free of pc game pass. you can be ready to play
over 100 games on day one of opening your fancy new laptop. so what are you waiting for? start owning noobs
today with your very own legion 5 pro at the link
in the description below. so now it is time to learn
how to build a pc for dummies. so i've got my resident dummy friends here and we're all gonna
watch the dvd together. (energetic music) - wow, he looks exactly what i thought he was gonna look like. - well, so first of all,
i like the time capsule of all of the stuff that is in frame here. not even the computer,
not even the computers to the other side of him. - yeah. - i'm looking at the blue linksys router - [austin] yo, the blue. up on the drive, yeah. - [jared] yeah, yeah. - the parts you need before we get started are your case with the
power supply pre-installed. - no, mark. stop telling me my case has
a power supply installed. it doesn't, it never did. - the only tools you
need are your bare hands, an index card, weird science, huh? and we're gonna add the thermal compound. whoa, whoa, whoa, wait, wait, wait. - whoa, whoa, whoa, stop. - whoa, whoa, whoa. - stop, stop. - no, no. - [jared] why is he doing it outside of the motherboard? - [austin] he's making a [censored] picasso over here. - [jared] how much is he putting on? - [austin] ah, oh my gosh! - [ken] oh, he went around. - [austin] what are you doing? and so it is time to build ourselves a gaming pc for dummies. i have all my components here, my boy mark, to guide
me through the process. what could possibly go wrong? the instructions were clear. - [jared] uh huh. - there's only one way
to apply thermal paste. - [jared] and what's that? - hold the cpu in your
hands and squirt it. - [jared] i didn't like that terminology, but we can go with that. - how do you open up
thermal paste with one hand? he was clear. you apply your thermal
paste all over the cpu and then you...  drop it in the slot. oh god, i hate it, i hate it. - [jared] it's the way the
book told us to do this. - [austin] he also said do like a top thing and then the bottom. so you can see some beautiful detail. now i'm going to smear it like some peanut butter sandwich. - [jared] oh, that's so bad. - i'm just getting most
of it on my finger. how are you supposed to
do this while holding it? i mean, it looks like i
just sneezed on my cpu. i am going to gently place it because i don't wanna spend the next three hours fixing like 85 bent pins. so with my fingers
covered in thermal paste, i'm gonna gently drop it into place. one, two. okay. that was maybe slightly more aggressive than i should have done it, but. this cooler being straight
out of 2009 is amazing. just listen to this. - [female voice] donda,
donda, donda, donda, donda, donda. - i was about to put this back in the case but i was way too curious. so why don't we take off the cooler and see how that thermal
paste actually did? i'm slightly concerned. i've taken off the bracket. there's nothing whole holding this on besides thermal paste right now. it's just stuck on. so are you ready to see
what this looks like? - [jared] oh yeah. oh my god. - [jared] oh my god. look at how much is on there. - i mean, i'll say that's
probably not enough to actually cause like damage to it. like it didn't actually spill over the edge of the cpu, but it's so thick. it's honestly probably gonna
be a little bit of a problem. maybe i get, i think this is okay, but man, that is like... - [jared] we still don't recommend it. - do not do this. it's caked on there. also shout it to the zalman for like slicing my fingers in multiple ways. (jared laughs) like i've got blood on my knuckles and on the inside of my hands. this thing might look cool, but every one of these things is sharp and you have to put so
much pressure on it. i got to put it back on. (both laugh) armed with all the knowledge
my pc for dummies guide could possibly provide, i have this. the greatest gaming pc 2009
could have ever hoped for. jared. - yes sir. - [austin] as the office
dummies, i think we have a lot to prove now, but
we have successfully built ourselves a large pizza, courtesy of our good buddy mark would you like to do the honors of pressing the power button and seeing if we followed the step by
step tutorial correctly? - might as well. - [austin] ooh. - [jared] that's power. - [austin] that seems promising. that seems promising. - can you hear that? did you hear the hard drive clicking? - [austin] oh, i haven't
heard that in a while. - oh oh, oh. - [both] yay. - of course it's gundam. - [austin] wait, we're not done though. - we still need to install windows - [austin] the most important part. so i'm just gonna. - [female voice] wow. - [austin] oh yeah, baby. - [jared] wow, that's
a fancy looking disc. yo, actually though, windows 11 home they actually did not skimp at all. it's very shiny. here goes nothing. [windows xp login chime] wait, what?