hello everyone and welcome we are inside of the mclaren 570s spyder and how about this crazy blue color, so let's go ahead and start it up and talk about how it goes all right press this active button that puts it in manual shift mode you can also do automatic mode with the active button and you've got several selections to choose from so handling and performance you can put them in normal sport or track. i've got them both set in sport and manual shifting mode put it in first actually these paddle shifters they're connected so when you move one in the other goes out when you pull the other one in the other one goes out kind of cool, so this car is powered by a 3.8l twin-turbocharged v8 producing 563 hp and 443 pound feet of torque if my memory serves me correctly there definitely is a noticeable turbo lag when you put your foot down you wait a little bit and then you are firmly planted back in your seat. it's quite cool i mean yes the turbocharger exists, but it's it's not like the nissan gtr. it's definitely a little bit quicker to react than that they'll both of them, you know 3.8. liters. this is a v8 and of course not a v6 but actually they may have similar turbo lag now, and i really feel it but this definitely sounds better than the nissan gtr that has this kind of whiny drone to it, and and this just has this nice yeah, v8's sound better, that's the that's the story there now let's talk about convertibles i used to not actually like convertibles before i had driven any of them. i just had this opinion that because convertibles, you know they remove the roof and that sacrifices rigidity when you take off that roof and so you have to add weight to compensate for the fact that you now have this loss of rigidity the car is kind of this floppier shape because you don't have that roof holding everything together well the really cool thing about this car is that even though the roof is completely retractable, and it's a hardtop roof it doesn't need any added structural rigidity because this is using a carbon fiber monocoque so the chassis itself is already so rigid that you don't actually have to reinforce it when you go to the convertible it's actually you know really no less rigid just as stiff so you can get all those precise reactions out of the chassis and just worry about suspension tuning for the handling characteristics of the car that carbon fiber monocoque only weighing 165 pounds pretty crazy so that's what's basically holding all this together, and then the body of the car is aluminum so this actually does weigh a hundred pounds more than the mclaren 570s the hardtop, but that's really just gone into making this convertible hardtop workout up and down in 15 seconds and it can be active up to 25 miles per hour quite nice we also have this window which you can raise or lower for buffeting if you want to get more of the exhaust noise, you put that down if you put it up you can reduce the wind buffeting also gives you another storage space back there if you put the top up and then raise the glass up you can store a little bit more back there actually the trunk i've got a full-size carry-on suitcase up there so a decent amount of storage actually the fact you can stick that in there so you know it is the supercar. it's not going to be super practical it's going to be super cool though hence the super part. i just want it's a super bunch of times. one of the things that's really cool is those 560 horsepowers they're all sent through an open differential mclaren is using an open differential with a 562 horsepower v8 and what they do is they use the brakes so if one wheel starts to get out of hand they brake it a little bit and i kind of think of this as an inferior solution but somehow it actually works with this and puts the power down so well traction-control coming on there a little bit to prevent me from killing myself, but really impressive you know what they're able to do the fine-tuning. they're able to do it doesn't feel like you know it's cutting you back it did when i was on the track so i did drive this on a track and it felt like the traction control not this one it was actually a hardtop that i was driving but it did feel like the traction control was holding me back here on a public road you know where the limit is obviously much lower than on a track. you don't really feel it intervening, and that's really nice that you know you feel confident in it, but it's also wicked fast there's definitely turbo lag but my goodness, when you put your foot down. wow! and those brakes that is incredible okay, so on you know how these systems feel. the trottle it's actually really cool they've done a nice job with it even though. it's turbocharged and has turbo lag you definitely get very precise control with the throttle so you give it 50 percent you can still give it more and then accelerate more. you give it 75% you get 75% and you know finally you give it a hundred percent, and you get a hundred percent, and so i really like the way that they've controlled the throttle there. really nice modulation to it even though you have turbo lag which is unique. there are definitely cars which you give it 50 percent, and it feels like your floor in it, and you don't have much control i really like the brake pedal not much travel at all really just pressure sensitive. however much pressure you apply that's how much braking you get very well matched with the car. you know what you think you should be applying really nice modulation of the brakes very strong brakes of course carbon-ceramic and just fantastic! really well-executed brakes. i don't think it hurts that i was driving the jeep track hawk earlier today and it kind of felt like a sponge in the brakes and this definitely has no sponginess to it kind of reminds me in a sense to the alfa romeo 4c which i also really like the brakes really low travel in these cars with the brake pedal which is cool and just completely pressure sensitive, which i really like. okay, we've covered the throttle we've covered the brakes. how's the steering feel? it is quite sharp. i mean this car is low very little roll very precise quick turn in great control. as far as the weighting. you know honestly, it's fairly light it's not a real heavy steering system, but it feels good because it matches exactly what you're asking it to do almost instantaneously, and you really can't ask for more than that an interesting thing to note about the steering is that it's actually electrically and hydraulically assisted and mclaren thought that this was kind of the best combination in order to you know get the perfect amount of both effort as well as feedback and i would say the effort end it's a bit low i might like it to me a little bit more, but on the feedback side. i really do like the system. i think they've done a really great job with the steering wow! another thing that's really impressive is the speed of this transmission is lightning quick shifts especially when you're on the throttle and you're up shifting really fast on the brakes down shifting really fast wow tremendous response that is awesome so from a driving standpoint i mean dynamically it's really doing everything you want from it the throttle pedal matches what you ask of it the brake pedal short travel very precise the steering super precise very responsive though a bit light honestly not much weight to it and then the transmission just fantastically smooth shifts it is turbocharged and you definitely feel that it's turbocharged so you know from from a performance standpoint if anything there are cars that eliminate turbo lag better. there are definitely cars that you don't wait quite as long, but once you're in that boost wow it is just so quick so quick! and an open differential! this thing has an open differential! something that you find and all you know the cheapest sports cars that can't even wing it plenty of them are even throwing in limited slip differentials somehow mclaren has made it work. it doesn't feel lame. it doesn't feel like one tires putting down on the power you don't get that one tire fire chris harris can still drift this car so you know all is well somehow they figured it out and it's very cool that they've done it very clever use of the brakes when one wheel is starting to lose traction just apply a little bit of brake pressure let some extra torque go to the other wheel balance it out regain traction and then let go of that brake and just let all of those 562 horses hit the ground so how about some performance numbers for the car zero to 60 in just 3.1 seconds in a rear-wheel drive car that's pretty dang good top speed of 204 miles per hour the exact same as the coupe, which is really cool because often you get convertibles you don't actually get to match the top speed of the coupe and this one you do now that's with the hardtop up if you put the hardtop down you're going to be under 200 miles per hour for your top speed now but you can hit that 204 miles per hour top speed with the top up so cool that didn't sacrifice there so 100 extra pounds and you get to have you know a more raw experience a more visceral experience because you've got the exhaust it doesn't feel slower honestly, it feels fantastic a little bit of extra added weight, but i i don't think it's noticeable i think they've done a fantastic job, and if i had the money to buy a 570s whether it was a coupe or a spider. i would certainly be going with a spider it's really cool. experience to have the top down here that exhaust loud in your face and have the wind blowing in your hair your gray hair because if you can afford this you're probably old and you have gray hair not that i'm old but youtube tells me that i'm somewhere between 20 and 65 and it turns out they are right something i've been pretty surprised by is the suspension of this vehicle, and it does have adaptive dampers but what i've been most surprised by is honestly how comfortable this car is i was in the gt-r nismo earlier today, and that car is super rough super loud inside and you know it's quite the contrast getting in this course i got the top down so the noise in here is high purely because the top is down but the ride quality is fantastic and you know bumps things like that. it's not really that noticeable, and it doesn't feel super car like in that sense which i really enjoy like it feels it feels very compliant and yet also very flat so you don't have a ton of body roll you know it's a very flat riding machine but at the same time this thing is actually comfortable to just cruise around in you could actually go travel a long distance in this and not feel bad you know you feel great by the end of your trip. it's quiet when you do have the roof up it's a great all-round car it's really surprised me in that sense because i thought it was gonna kind of be this brutal track weapon and it's not at all it definitely has the track weapon aspect to it but it's also very comfortable and that to me has been one of the biggest surprises about this. the doors are pretty neat mclaren calls these dihedral, and you actually don't have to like force it close you just kind of let it drop and then it's got some motors in there and it'll close it for you of course a bit complex, but very cool nonetheless it looks pretty neat with both the doors up and i do like this display up front. it's very videogame esque. i mean it's all completely digital you've got different readouts for coolant temperature oil temperature external temperature how much fuel you've got left what gear you're in you know the engine rpm but it's very it looks like a video game like the little corner display when you're playing forza 7 or whatever it may be project cars 2 since that's where i initially got to try the mclaren 570s and man! when you put your foot down, it's like everything just melts past you just flyin' at you! woaah! do you hear that snap? that pop little fuel dumped out there that was cool. it smells like lawn mower it's definitely not this it's probably someone's lawnmower. or there's a honda nearby, sick burn! traction control definitely intervenes so i would imagine if you weren't in sport mode you put it in track or perhaps turn off the traction control this thing would be quite the animal to try and tame because yeah, i'll be in third 60 70 miles an hour and traction control lights coming on saying dude back off the throttle ford taurus first car i drove learn how to drive and a ford taurus. it was not good you know it's crazy to think 12 years ago. i was learning how to drive in an old 95 ford taurus and 12 years later, how crazy is this? i get to be driving a mclaren 570s spider on this epic back road beautiful day gorgeous state of oregon, this is awesome! this is truly awesome! so this is one of eight cars i've been testing out this week as a part of the automotive video associations automotive video awards and it will be competing for the performance car against those other eight vehicles check out the automotive video association. i'll include some links in the video description, but pretty cool we've grouped together a bunch of automotive youtubers and you know we're getting together to determine which cars we think are the best thank you all for watching if you have any questions or comments feel free to leave them below and now a little bit more exhaust! rummm!