this is the west closure complex, a billion-dollar 
piece of infrastructure that protects parts of new   orleans from flooding during tropical storms. 
constructed partly as a result of hurricane   katrina, it features one of the largest pumping 
stations in the world, capable of lifting the   equivalent of a fully-loaded boeing 747 every 
second. when storm surge threatens to raise   the levels of the sea above developed areas 
on the west bank of the mississippi river,   this facility's job is to hold it back. the gates 
close and the pumps move rainwater and drainage   from the city's canals back into the mississippi 
river and out to the gulf. this pump station may   be the largest of its kind, but its job is hardly 
unique. we collectively move incredible volumes   of fresh water, drainage, and wastewater into, 
out of, and around our cities every day. and,   we mostly do it using pumps. i love pumps. but, 
even though they are critical for the safety,   health, and well-being of huge populations of 
people, there are a lot of things that can go   wrong if not properly designed and operated. 
i'm grady, and this is practical engineering.   in today's episode, we're exploring some 
of the problems that can happen with pumps. this video is sponsored by hellofresh, 
america's number 1 meal kit. more on that later. i've got some colored water and clear pipe out 
here in my garage to demonstrate a few common   pitfalls that pumps can face, and the first 
one is priming. although liquids and gases   are both fluids, not all pumps can move them 
equally. most types of pumps that move liquids   cannot move air. it's less dense and more 
compressible, so it's often just unaffected   by impellers designed for liquids. that has a big 
implication, though. it means if you're starting a   pump dry - that is when the intake line and the 
housing are not already full of water, like i'm   doing here - nothing happens. the pump can run 
and run, but because it can't draw air out of   the intake line, no water ever flows. this is why 
many pumps need to be primed before starting up.   priming just means filling the pump with liquid 
to displace the air out of housing and sometimes   the intake pipe. watch what happens when i raise 
the discharge line to let water flow backwards   into the pump. it happens quickly. as soon 
as the air is displaced from the housing,   the pump is primed and water starts to flow. 
there are a lot of creative ways to accomplish   this for large pumps. some even have small priming 
pumps to do this very job. "but what primes the   priming pumps?" well, there are some kinds of 
pumps that are self-priming. one is submersible   pumps that are always below the water where 
air can't find its way in. another is positive   displacement pumps that can create a vacuum and 
draw air through. they may not be as efficient or   convenient to use as the main pump, but they work 
just fine for the smaller application of priming. however a pump is primed, it's critical that 
it stays that way. if air finds its way into   the suction line of a pump, it can lose its prime 
and stop working altogether. when i lift the pump   out of the water, the prime is lost. and now 
if i put the pump back down into the water, it   doesn't start back up. this can be a big problem 
if it goes unnoticed, not just because the pump   isn't working, but also because running a pump 
dry often leads to damage. many pumps depend on   the fluid in the housing for cooling, so without 
it, they overheat. in addition, the seals around   the shaft that keep water from intruding on the 
motor depend on the fluid to function properly.   if the seals dry out, they get damaged and 
require replacement which can be a big job. the next problem with pumps is also related to the 
suction side. pumps work by creating a difference   in pressure between the inlet and outlet. in very 
simple terms, one side sucks and one side blows.   a problem comes when the pressure gets too low on 
the suction side. you might know that the phase   of many substances depends not just on their 
temperature, but also on the ambient pressure.   that's why the higher you are in elevation, the 
lower the temperature needed to boil water. if   you continue that trend into lower and lower 
pressures, eventually some liquids (including   water) will boil at normal temperatures without 
any added heat. it's a pretty cool effect as a   science demonstration, but it's not something you 
want happening spontaneously inside your pump.   just like they don't work with air, most 
pumps don't work very well with steam either.   but, the major problem comes when those bubbles of 
stream collapse back into a liquid. liquids aren't   very compressible so these collapsing bubbles 
send powerful shockwaves that can damage pump   components. this phenomenon is called cavitation, 
and i have a video covering it in a lot more   detail that you can check out after this one to 
learn more. it usually doesn't lead to immediate   failure, but cavitation will definitely shorten 
the life of a pump significantly if not addressed. the solution to this problem at pumps 
is known as net positive suction head,   and with a name like that, you know it's 
important. manufacturers of large pumps will   tell you the required net positive suction head 
(or npsh), which is the minimum pressure needed at   a pump inlet to avoid cavitation. the engineer's 
job is to make sure that a pump system is designed   to provide at least this minimum pressure. that 
npsh depends on the vertical distance between   the sump and inlet, the frictional losses in 
the intake pipe, the temperature of the fluid,   and the ambient air pressure. here's an example: 
with this valve wide open, the suction pressure at   the inlet is about 20 kpa or 5 inches of mercury. 
now watch what happens when i move the pump to the   top of the ladder, but leave the bucket on the 
ground. the suction pressure just about doubles.   a constriction in the line also decreases 
the available npsh. if i close this valve on   the intake side of my pump, you immediately see 
the pressure in the line becoming more negative   (in other words, a stronger vacuum). this 
pump isn't strong enough to cavitate,   but it does make a bad sound when there isn't 
enough positive suction head at the inlet.   i think it easily demonstrates how a 
poor intake design can dramatically   affect the pressure in the intake line 
and quickly lead to failure of a pump. the last problem that can occur at 
pumps is also the most interesting:   vortices. you've probably seen a vortex form when 
you drain a sink or bathtub. these vortices occur   when the water accelerates in a circular pattern 
around an outlet. if the vortex is strong enough,   the water is flung to the outside, allowing air to 
dip below the surface. this is a problem for pumps   if that air is allowed to enter the suction line. 
we talked a little about what happens when a pump   runs dry in the discussion about priming, but 
air is a problem even if it's mixed with water.   that's because it takes up space. a bubble 
of air in the impeller reduces the pump's   efficiency since the full surface of the blades 
can't act on the water. this causes the pump to   run at reduced performance and may cause 
it to lose prime, creating further damage. the easiest solution to vortexing is submergence 
- just getting the intake pipe as far as possible   below the surface of the water. the deeper it 
is, the larger and longer a vortex would have   to be before air could find its way into the line. 
this is achieved by making the sump - that is the   structure that guides the water toward the intake 
- deeper. that solution seems simple enough,   except that these sumps are often major structural 
elements of a pump station that are very costly to   construct. you can't just indiscriminately 
oversize them. but how deep is deep enough? it turns out that's a pretty complicated 
question because a vortex is hard to predict.   even sophisticated computational fluid dynamics 
models have trouble accurately characterizing   when and if a vortex will form. that's an issue 
because you don't want to design and construct   a multi-million-dollar pumping facility just 
to find out it doesn't work. and there aren't   really off-the-shelf designs. just about every 
pumping station is a custom-designed facility   meant for a specific application, whether it's 
delivering raw water from a reservoir or river   to a treatment plant, sending fresh water out 
to customers, lifting sewage to be treated   at a wastewater plant, pumping rainwater 
out of a low area, or any number of other   reasons to move large volumes of water. so 
if you're a designer, you have some options. first, you can just be conservative. we know 
through lots of testing that vortices occur   mostly due to non-uniform flow in the sump. any 
obstructions, sharp turns, and even vertical walls   can lead to flow patterns that evolve into 
vortices. organizations like the hydraulic   institute have come up with detailed design 
standards that can guide engineers through the   process of designing a pump station to make sure 
many of these pitfalls are avoided. things like   reducing the velocity of the flow and maintaining 
clearance between the walls and the suction line   can reduce the probability of a vortex forming. 
there are also lots of geometric elements that   can be added to a sump or intake pipe 
to suppress the formation of vortices. the second option for an engineer is to 
build a scale model like i have here.   civil engineering is a little bit unique from 
other fields because there aren't as many   opportunities for testing and prototyping. 
infrastructure is so large and costly,   you usually only have one shot to get the design 
right. but, some things can be tested at scale,   including hydraulic phenomena. in fact, there 
are many laboratories across the world that   can assemble and test scale models of pump 
stations, pipelines, spillways, and other   water-handling infrastructure to make sure they 
work correctly before spending those millions   (or billions) of dollars on construction. they 
give engineers a chance to try out different   configurations, gain confidence in the 
performance of a hydraulic structure,   and avoid the pitfalls like loss of prime, 
cavitation, and vortices at pump stations. it's time for everyone's favorite segment of   me trying to cook while my wife 
tries to capture that on video. "don't mind if i just ground 
some espresso in the background." goofing around in the kitchen is 
one of our favorite things to do   together. that's why we're thankful for 
hellofresh, the sponsor of this video,   for converting cooking from a chore into 
our favorite thing to do on date night. "how geometrically pleasing to the eye..." we are indecisive eaters, meaning neither of us 
likes to be the one to decide what's for dinner.   it's nice to have hellofresh curating delicious 
and healthy recipes so we don't have to. "don't mash it." the pre-portioned ingredients mean there's less 
prep and less food waste, and the packaging is   mostly recyclable or already recycled content. 
hellofresh also helps us get dinner ready quickly   when we don't feel like planning, prep, and 
shopping which is pretty much every day right now. [miscellaneous baby noises] go try it yourself at hellofresh.com and use   code practical12 to get 12 free 
meals, including free shipping. "youre mashing it... just throw that one in there." supporting our sponsors helps support this 
channel. that's hellofresh.com and use code   practical12. thanks, hellofresh, and thank 
you for watching. let me know what you think.