- inside this box, directly from japan, is a brand new updated version of the ps5. what? you might ask, is in a brand new updated
version of the ps5 that i definitely spent a lot of money to have overnighted to california? we're about to find out. all i know is that due to some
japanese regulatory filings, very exciting i know, this ps5 is supposedly a third of a kilo or about little over half a pound lighter than the existing ps5 digital. there's also some talk that it might have a different wifi card, the screw is different. this ps5 is currently on sale in japan, and i believe australia, but my assumption is is that
this is the first revision of the ps5 that will probably be sold
everywhere pretty shortly. is is tape? no it's not tape. - [man] it's green, it's green, it's literally green. - i'm color blind. - [man] no, i think you're just blind. - that's 100% true statement, ask my wife. (record scratch)
- [man] yeah, i-- (man laughs) i didn't have to tell her that one. - i love you, honey. - [man] so not only
are you down over $1000 but you're sleeping on the couch tonight. - it's subtle, but the existing model is the 1015b, whereas the new model is the 1100b. why is it lighter? is it less quality? did they take out some stuff? it actually does feel a little lighter. i don't think (boy scream). try it? here's one, i'm not gonna
tell which one that is. that's the japanese one, see? so, first of all, we have
the original digital edition, which comes in at 3,828 grams and 3,542! - [man] wow. - 300 grams lighter. - [man] riveting content. - look! - [man] it's lighter, good job. - here's the question, why is it lighter? it at least means that i'm not
crazy for making this video. - [man] well, well let's not go that far. - you can't see right now, i have a whole array of testing equipment. i don't need the-- - [man] the dude's a lunatic. - i want to know what's new in the ps5! - thanks.
this is the original stand. this is the thing i do know, is updated. okay. that's kind of hard. i probably would want
to use a screwdriver. you know what? i'm actually totally not kidding. that is way easier to do with my fingers. now that we have some, new and improved, slightly, easier stand, only fire these up and
see if there's any actual physical difference that we
can notice with the hardware. how riveting is this content? how excited are you to have already subscribed to the channel and ringling the ding-a-ling bell for high quality technical analysis that you certainly can't get
anywhere else on the internet? look, mom said we had
digital foundry at home. we got digital foundry at home. - welcome to the ps5 head to head! on my left side is the original launch
model of the ps5 digital, the 10 series, if you will. whereas on my right side is the brand new 11 series digital. let's start out by taking a listen and a little probe with my sound meter of how loud the original ps5 is. (ps5 fans blowing air) 43.5 decibels. okay. (ps5 fans blowing air) 42.1. very small difference. it's very subtle though. and i can tell you very confidently that if you're more than a few feet away from either of these, this one might technically
be a little bit quieter. it's not something you're going to notice. so this is a seek thermal camera. now i have more fun goodies, like a infrared thermometer, but i'm, i'm going to actually use this because this will give us a good sense for what it looks like in terms of the actual
temperature of the models. coming straight through the back. we have 51, 52 degrees. okay. so now let's take a look at the new one and see where we're at here. 55, 56. so this one's actually somewhat warmer, three or four degree
difference isn't huge, but that actually is
something, especially, you can say that the fan sound different. my hunch is that the difference
between these two ps5's and the weight is that this has a
different cooling assembly. the new one is running pretty consistently three to five degrees warmer than the old one celsius, yeah, yeah, yeah. so and fahrenheit, that's
probably like eight, nine degrees warmer. that's something that you would notice if you're having throttling issues with an existing ps5 that doesn't have like
great air flow or something. the difference of five degrees celsius, that might not seem exciting, but that is actually enough to cause some difference
in either your performance or in just the longevity of the console, ff it's sitting there. because the exterior temperature is always significantly cooler
than what the actual chip on the inside is running right now. - [man] and right know, we're on open air. this is not in the cabinet. - no, this is about the best case scenario of austin being baked by ps5's. - the next thing i want to try is how much power each of these are taking traditionally when there are slim models, when there are upgrades
to playstation's or xbox's a lot of times they will tweak the chips and the actual power draw on the inside. i don't think there's a new chip in this, mostly just because
this model is coming out less than a year after the ps5, but our handy-dandy
power meter doesn't lie. the old school original ps5 is sitting pretty consistently
at about 225 watts. so that is the control. 228, 230. oh, wow. so the thing with the ps5
that you need to consider is that unlike the xbox is there is a variable
boost frequency, right? so the ps5 will run the cpu
gpu as high as they can, but there's some variability there. if we're talking 3, 4, 5 watts. to me that seems more margin
of error of certain ps5's or just going to boost slightly higher or alternatively, certain silicon inside the ps5's may require slightly higher voltage to hit those same frequencies. to this point, we've established, that the new ps5 runs slightly quieter, but somewhat significantly hotter. and is ballpark the same
as far as power goes. so let's start out by taking them apart. in equal distances of-- oh, look, is that jimmy from ps ready? to help me take apart playstation's? wow. it's almost like we could have planned that to
be a smoother transition. all right. here's the deal. let's
take it apart bit by bit. i've got the scale. we're gonna keep going until
we get to the bottom of this and find out why they're
lighter. what the wifi cards are. all that kind of stuff. - sounds good. so the screw was different. - the screw was absolutely different. so... - you got the new one, though. - i have the new one, you got the old one. - wait, let me try it. i've been talking about it for awhile. - you made like eight
videos on this (laughs). it is easier to do. okay. that's a big difference. okay. i got mine. i've got mine. we'll look at the fan blades though. are there... actually, you know what,
let's take a closer look. - if we take it apart. - let's open up the ssd and see if there's
anything different here. hey wait, wait, wait. that's different. that's different shape. - [man in the background] it's lighter. - [austin] it is lighter. can we, can we get a, an enhance on this? (bell dings) - just do it. (plate comes off) (austin laughs) - see? i will make fun of me when i did it. jimmy did it too. - good thing this isn't mine. - you know the sad thing is i have an entire video on
how to disassembly a ps5 but that was like last year and i've totally forgotten how i did it. - i didn't watch it. - wait, wait, wait, wait. - i don't have power tools. i got to take this personally. - i was trying to get ahead a little bit so i can look like i know what i'm doing when you get done with your part. all the fans are different. - [austin] so, they're sort of similar, but this one has much more curved blades. you see it has this bottom bit, which actually is attached
all %the way around. there's just an empty gap
on the inside of this one. so this one is a delta electronics fan as is that, so it's the same manufacturer, which delta makes a lot of fans for tons of different things. - okay, so new fan, on the scale, 257 grams. - okay. so we've got the old one. exactly the same. exactly the same. - the search continues for our 300 grams. - oh. - doesn't open? - oh jimmy, you smart, smart, man. - we definitely just missed a screw. - yeah, we missed a screw. on count of three. one, two, three. oh, you got something! there's something. - this is copper colored. - yes. - this is bigger. what is that? so a couple things i noticed you see how the copper heat
sink on the original one is much wider. look how much extra
space there is on this. so there's clearly something
missing from this side. i also see, look, you have a black and a
white wire for your wifi. i have a white and a blue. - oh, so you do have a new wife thing. you know what this heating thing though, for a console that is coming off of two generations of consoles, that have
major heating problems. and one of the big issues reportedly with building
this thing was heat. i don't love that the newer
model has a smaller heat sink. - and look how much extra space, there's a full finger of space, which is being completely
wasted, which is not there. also, you can see the pcb, right? it's very clearly a light
green versus darker green. here, can you read me the
serial number on that wifi? let me do this, just because it's gonna be
really hard to stay on camera. i'm just gonna take
photos of both of these and then we'll just put it in that cut. this, i am almost positive, unless it's the bluetooth. but if this is the wifi,
this looks identical. oh, wait. no, there's something else different. look at this. i have a blue and a white
that comes down, right? you have a white and a black and you also have another white and black. so you have four. so i would assume one of
these is for bluetooth. and one of these, one
of these are for wifi. this new ps5. this is a, i don't think there's any doubt here. this is a cost reduced,
lighter weight, less material. like, the reason it's lighter is because they literally removed cooling. - because they just reported that they're finally not taking a loss on these things. so yeah, it's, it's what we guessed in the
videos where we talked about it. they're just using cheaper stuff. - oh my god! i've got like half the heat sink! - yeah. that's like really different. - that's not even close! wait, wait, wait. set
these down, set these down. - this directly explains why the new one is so much hotter. - yeah! - holy crap. - you've got like a big chunk of this. i've got a little chunk this now. you making me feel like i need
to compensate with my ps5. look at how different that is. - that's crazy, dude. - wow.
- and the different colors, like these are clearly
just entirely different models of heat sink. - absolutely. - what we know, it's not as efficient, because it runs hotter. - the fence has a little bit better, but that makes sense because
this is, i bet i believe, a slightly better fan. that does not compensate for the lack of, i mean, i'm going to guess when we weigh these, 300 grams difference in heat sink. - yeah. i don't want to like,
make any bold claims here, but that doesn't seem good. - no, no. there's no
scenario, where this is good. technically, if sony is able to get usable, good performance
out of this smaller, lighter heat sink, they save money and it should be okay. but we know that even
with a very brief test, this one runs hotter, which makes sense because
i'm sure the chip inside is the exact same. look, you've got all
this extra copper here. they, i guess for the launch models, over-engineered the cool-- - which they should've done. because sony again has had
major problems with heat in their consoles. - i would guess what's happened. is that sony, now they've got almost a year of ps5 data, they've spent more time
testing everything, have determined that while yes, this is going to run a little bit hotter, that's probably fine, that it won't negatively
impacts things that much. - i dunno, man, that, that doesn't seem wise considering that the ps5, like you said, changes its wattage based on
what's going on in the console. - so potentially long-term, especially as you imagine
this kit started to get caked in dust and whatnot, you got less fans, less mass. you could actually lose performance. - [man] but i wonder though, with everything being so
expensive to produce right now that this actually helps their
bottom line compensate... - no, a 100% does, because
they just announced that they're making a
profit on these things now, instead of taking a loss. 1,640 39 - okay, so that is the
original big chunkus, heat sink. - let's see where we're at on this one. so i'll flip it up the same way you did. i'll rest it gently on the scale. - 1,368.
- yeah. that's it. - they literally took out a very sizeable amount of copper and aluminum heat fans. - unlike the fans. you know, which ps5 you have
based on the model number, the fans are a total crapshoot, you might have one fan
or might have the other and the only way to tell is
to take off the side plates, which is annoying. but now, you have an easy way to know if your is ps5 going to run hotter. - the only thing that we can't really determine is the difference in the wifi. there certainly is a difference, right? because i, i only had two antennas and you had four. so something has been
simplified or changed. but unless we actually sit down and do like side-by-side wifi tests. the ps3 specifically. was a console that when it came out every different time they updated it, it got worse and worse
and worse and worse. the very first update we've seen less than a year into the ps5, i don't think there's any argument that this is a worse console, at least for thermals and for the cooling, maybe they've changed the wifi stuff. maybe as we dig deeper into this, we'll find other weird
quirks and features. but as far as i'm concerned, i would rather have a launch ps5, - especially if you're putting
an ssd in your console, dude, like even if you have that heat sink, that ssd is going to get hot. and if this one has worse cooling, you're going to have
trouble with that ssd. and there you have it, friends. - the ps5 is exposed. we've now determined the true root of all evil. which is about 300 grams
of copper aluminum. huge thanks. jimmy, thank you very much for joining. if you have not already, you should absolutely go subscribe to jimmy's excellent ps ready channel for minute by minute updates on the impending playstation crisis.