hi everyone, in this episode we're going to
look at a way of using delegates that is conceptually very different from how we used them last
episode. let's consider a simple scenario where we
have a game with a player class, an achievements class, and a userinterface class. the player class has a "die" method, which
we can imagine gets called when the player's health falls below zero. now let's say that the achievements class
wants to know when the player dies, so that it can keep count for the 'die 1000 times'
achievement or whatever. and the ui class also wants to know when the
player dies, so that it can show the gameover screen. to this end, we can add an onplayerdeath method
to both of these classes. the question is, how do we actually call these
methods when the player dies? the simplest solution is to make sure that
the onplayerdeath methods are public, and then, in the "die" method of the player class,
to get references to the achievements and ui classes, and simply call onplayerdeath
on those references. this is a tempting way to do it, because it's
so quick and easy, but there are some pretty good arguments against it. mainly, it's simply not the player class's
job to keep track of who wants to know when the player has died. and what if some other classes also want to
know when the player fires a weapon, or kills an enemy, or opens a treasure chest. the player class could quickly become littered
with references to other classes, obscuring the actual functionality of the player code. furthermore, since the player class now references
these other classes, it is dependent on their existence. we couldn't remove any of these classes from
the project, without breaking the player class. this makes reusing code very annoying: you
want to reuse your player code in another project, but first you have to weed out all
the references to different classes that don't exist in the new project. ideally what we want is for the player class,
instead of individually informing other classes when the player dies, to simply announce when
it happens. it is then the responsibility of any class
that wants to know when the player dies, to actually listen out for that announcement. so i'll remove the references i created in
the player class, and instead create a public delegate up at the top of the class, which
is void and has no parameters - just like the onplayerdeath methods. i'll call it the deathdelegate. we can then make an instance of this delegate
- so public deathdelegate deathevent, and when the player dies, we will invoke this
delegate. it's important, before invoking a delegate,
to make sure that it is not null. this is to prevent an error from occurring
in the case that nothing has been assigned to the delegate. in the achievements class, let's make a start
method, which we can imagine will be called at the beginning of the game. here we can get a reference to the player
class, and subscribe the onplayerdeath method to the deathevent. note the "plus equals" notation for subscribing
a method to a delegate. when the player dies, it would be good practice
to unsubscribe from the delegate, using the "minus equals" operator. let's copy this over to the ui class as well. so now, when the player dies, the deathevent
is invoked, and all the methods subscribed to it will be called. this is fantastic, but there are two things
that can go wrong. the first is if we accidentally write "=" instead
of "+=" when subscribing a method to the delegate. this will overwrite anyone else that has already
subscribed to that delegate, and so they won't be notified. the second is that, any class with a reference
to the player, can invoke the delegate by simply writing player.deathevent(); everyone
who has subscribed to the delegate will now mistakenly think that the player is dead. of course neither of these things issue an
issue as long as one is careful when programming. however, the last thing we need as programmers,
is to give ourselves more opportunity to screw up. this is where events come in. to make a delegate into an event, one simply
adds the "event" keyword when creating the delegate instance. all of a sudden, classes other than the one
in which the delegate is defined, are no longer able to assign directly to the delegate - they
can only subscribe and unsubscribe using "+=" and "-=" furthermore, they are not able to invoke the delegate. so you can think of the event keyword as simply adding these two restrictions to the delegate. i'd like to mention two more things: actions
and funcs. these don't provide any new functionality,
they are simply convenient shortcuts for creating delegate variables. they're both part of the system namespace,
so you'll need to write 'using system;' to access them. so the idea is that, in order to create this
deathevent variable, we had to first create the deathdelegate to specify the return type
and parameters. actions and funcs allow us to skip this step,
and go straight to creating the variable. so i could replace these two lines with public
event action deathevent; this is because "action" represents a void delegate with no parameters. the generic versions of action, can be used
to create a void delegate with a single, or multiple parameters. func can be used to create a delegate with
a custom return type, and no parameters. func can also be used to create a delegate
with a custom return type, as well as parameters. this is done by specifying multiple types
when creating the func. the last type specified will be the return
type, and all previous ones will be parameters. for example, creating a func of type int,
string bool; is equivalent to making a delegate that returns a bool, and takes in an int and
string parameter. and, then making an instance of that delegate. i hope you've found all this to be helpful. if you'd like to support these videos, you
can do so on patreon. cheers.