- guys, i made a really big mistake. like, seriously, i messed up. i dropped these limited edition shirts, and i said every time someone
bought one, i would sign it. every person who buys our
limited edition 40 mil merch, we will sign it! and i even had the audacity to tweet, "do your worst, internet!" see this giant cube of shirts here? i have to sign every single one of these shirts in this cube, and it can literally take me weeks. what the heck, guys, do you hate me? and that's what i'm gonna
be doing in this video, signing all these shirts, and i might literally lose my
mind or have a heart attack. i don't know, it's gonna be brutal. grab some stuff, carl. all right, let's take
our first pile of shirts. here is the first signature. get a closeup of it. mb, don't put it on a
check, it won't work. 70,000 more to go. let's begin the time lapse. (upbeat music) going forward, i'm gonna be signing
blanks without the graphic. we literally couldn't
keep up with the orders, and i'm gonna have to
sign before we print them. i'm gonna sign it right here, and i'm gonna give you a number one, just so you know. comment if you got this! (upbeat music) - yay! - after literally signing
for an entire day, we barely made a dent in this cube. this is gonna take forever! it is now the second day, and yesterday i only signed 2,000 shirts. so, at this pace, it's
gonna take me a month. i don't have a month. i'm gonna try to sign more today. (upbeat music) i'm kind of tired. i've signed about 6,000 shirts in total. i'll see you tomorrow. and we're back! this is day number
three of signing shirts. all these boxes are full
of shirts i've signed, but we still have so many left. this literally sucks, but
i'm doing it for you guys. put a "ding" when i smile. (upbeat music) 10,000 shirts have been signed. i don't know, i still
have a lot more to go. (yawning) i'm tired. and now it's day number four! back to the grind, because
it's ever gonna end. (upbeat music) it is now day five, and at the end of yesterday,
my shoulder started hurting, so we built this contraption,
so i can sign at an incline. we still have over
50,000 shirts to sign in, and my shoulder already hurts. regardless, let's begin
the suffering again. i probably still have
a week of signing left, which is terrifying. i was beyond exhausted at this point, but at least i managed to
knock out 5,000 shirts today. it is the beginning of day six, and to be 100% honest, my
wrist hurts like crazy, but i said i'd do it, so i'm gonna do it. i'm in pain. when i started, this whole thing
was a giant cube of shirts, and you can see how many
we've signed so far. i've been signing for six days, and we've only signed 20,000 shirts. we decided to just pile 'em
all on top of each other, so then i could just flip more. and yeah, time lapse. (upbeat music) when i was younger, and daydreamed about being a big youtuber, i thought
i'd be doing fun things, like, literally, anything
besides signing shirts for two weeks straight, but i was wrong. that was all. time lapse. (upbeat music) - [announcer] the next day... - [man] you've gotta sign more shirts. - i was enjoying sleeping. (sighing) all right, i'm not having fun anymore, but it is encouraging that i'm almost halfway done
signing all the shirts. i am officially one week
into signing shirts. i honestly don't know if
i'll be able to sign 'em all, but i'm gonna do my best,
because i love you guys. that's an ugly "p," let me fix that. (upbeat music) my wrist is killing me, so i'm gonna try my left one. it takes me, like, 10 times longer to sign it with my left arm, but progress is progress. (upbeat music) see this guy here? he is literally a physical therapist for professional sports athletes. we had to bring him down, so
he could monitor me signing, and make sure i didn't get carpal tunnel. needless to say, this was the hardest thing i've
ever done in my entire life. when i started, this entire cube was full of shirts and hoodies, and now this is all that remains. it took nine entire days,
but we signed all of this. i'm so ready to be done. day number 10 was pretty weak. mentally, i was just destroyed, and i could only sign 2,000 shirts before i just had a mental breakdown. it's been 11 days, and i've signed over
60,000 shirts and hoodies. see this cube, chris? - [chris] yeah. - it was shirts. - [chris] and you signed... - bro! (explosion)
these are all that are left. - [chris] are you regretting saying you'll sign every shirt that gets bought? - i don't know. all right, let's go finish shirts. - yeah!
- yeah, whoo! - and now let's time lapse. i could have knocked out
the rest on the 11th day, but if i didn't sign all these shirts, we wouldn't have sold as many, and i wouldn't have been able to afford this next video i wanted to do. i suffered to make the best
content possible for you guys. as you can see by all the boxes piling up, i signed a ton of shirts, and i did all of this because i wanted to give you guys this super epic 40 million subscriber special. i said, i'd sign every shirt
you guys bought, and i did. it was painful, but i wanted to stay true to my word. and like i said at the
beginning of the video, the reason i did this was to raise money for my 40
million subscriber video. in exactly two days, my 40 million subscriber
special will go public. we may or may not have bought... (mumbling) it's insane! by buying me from shopmrbeast.com, you literally allow me
to do bigger videos. i promise 100% of the
revenue from shopmrbeast.com goes right back into my videos. so if you haven't already, go to shopmrbeast.com, and buy some merch. it means the world to me, and it genuinely helps me out so much. the last shirt! i've been signing for 12 days,
and this is the last shirt. i won't sign it. - [man] no, sign it! - boom, boom, boom. all right, i'm going to bed. goodbye, get that camera away from me! i can finally push the shelf over! (shelf falling) (explosion) [music] mr. beast, 6,000 [music] [music] mr. beast, 6,000,
yeah, you know his name [music] [music] he changed it once or twice,
but i think it's here to-- [music] (explosion)