(taser buzz) - obligatory. definitely definitely do not try this one at home. in case you're curious how strong this magnet is. very strong. okay. three, two, one. (electric buzz) welcome to tech busters. the show where we test the most ridiculous pc gaming myths and rumors, of course, disclaimer,
do not try this at home. we are trained and licensed professionals and also keep in mind that a lot of the components we were using to test these myths are already
going to be recycled anyway. so, no pcs were harmed in
the filming of this video. it's a mostly true statement. mostly. - austin can magnets kill your pc? - i remember as a kid,
we got a school computer and this was back obviously
in the days of crts. i remember one of the
kids in my class, like, you know what we can do? take a magnet and you put
it on the front of the crt and it starts to like discolor it and it gets all like wonky and stuff. so that was my first experience
with magnets and pcs. - i imagine that things
are probably a little better off now than they
used to be at least. - this seems like an easy one to test. we just get a bunch of
magnets, some pc hardware and we see at what point
we start breaking things. - i just want to expense
magnets on the company accounts. - magnets aren't expensive you realize. basically it's an excuse
to play with magnets. it looks incredibly innocuous. this is to be fair, not
a very powerful magnet. this is like a little desk magnet for like paper clips and whatnot. so just for reference right now we're running this system at 100%, right? so it is a hundred
percent pegged on the cpu. we're hitting it with a
fairly intensive workload. so if there's any problems we should be able to
notice it pretty quick. so i'm going to run the magnet along the ram and see what happens. this feels very wrong. i'm running it right along. i'm gonna get in between. i mean, it's definitely magnetizing to the graphics card
and it should be fine. ooh. okay. that is a much stronger magnet. i'm gonna rip the power supply out. oh, okay. - [matt] that's what they
use to go magnet fishing. (laughs) - so in case you're curious
how strong this magnet is, very strong. actually, i'm going to
try that the exhaust fan. if i can stop the exhaust
fan, that will be a success. ooh. i feel it tugging. yep. - what do you mean? how about cpu fan? (fan rumbling) oh, you hear that? wait, wait, listen to this. (fan rumbling) so getting close to the
cpu fan killed the fan. oh, look at this. okay. it did start back up, but actually the magnet is strong enough
to kill that cpu fan. so this certainly could
knock out a system, right? if i kill that cpu fan
and you don't actually manually restart it, that fan will stop and it'll overheat. the hard drive is certainly something that i think is pretty
susceptible to this. but-
- [ken] yeah, i think if we put the magnet here that'll
definitely kill the system. okay. so we're reading and writing at 130 megabytes per second. - okay. so i'm going to
count you down. okay? i'm gonna hit start and you go and get it as close as you can. okay. ready? - okay.
- set. and.. oh, it stopped. it stopped. (laughs) it immediately stopped. yeah. that hard drive's toast. you just killed the hard drive. so magnet will absolutely
kill a hard drive. - it makes sense, mechanical
moving pieces. right? - i think there's really
only one thing left. i'm gonna get as close to the graphics card and see what happens. watch my fingers. if i lose them. - ooh. it shut off.
- ooh. - i mean, it grabbed onto
that gpu pretty hard. um.. the system is still running though. it looks like it's coming up though. and we got a disc check. cause windows is like,
"uh-oh, i don't like that." i think this is no longer a myth. powerful magnets, not regular stuff. right? there's lots of magnets
and all kinds of like sort of pc hardware and everything
we use, but powerful magnets around something like a
computer or i assume something like the inside of a
smartphone can and absolutely will cause major, major issues. might not completely kill it immediately. but it'll certainly do
damage to your hard drive. and i feel like if we
got it close to something like our cpu or our ram it would just die. like we would just actually crash it. - austin does mixing ram
equal worst performance. - ooh. i don't think i've
ever actually tried this. so usually the advice is if
you're going to have, you know two, three, four sticks
of ram in your system you should have them all
from matching manufacturers, matching speeds. now that's not technically like necessary. right? so modern ddr4,
it'll always default to a base speed. - well, this isn't totally unreasonable because obviously hardware for some people might be hard to come by. or some people might just
be scraping the parts - yeah
- scraping the barrel for some parts. - specially if you're upgrading like a pre-built or something or you have some old memory. it might actually, if this works and we're able to get
it sorted, this would be a really good and cheap upgrade to get yourself another 8-16
gbs of ram in your system. so this one seems pretty straightforward. so to test, i've got myself
a fairly high end system. so we have now a ryzen processor which ryzen processors are
typically pretty reliant on memory, speed and
configuration, but also we're using a very high
end one, a ryzen 9 5900x. that basically means that
we've got 12 cpu cores we need to feed with memory. so to start out with,
i have a configuration that we would probably all use
with a processor like this. this is 32 gbs of corsair
vengeance rgb memory. and it is running in dual
channel at 3,600 megahertz. so this will serve as our control. now the main test we're looking at here is the multi-threaded
score inside of geekbench which is a score for this setup of 12,232. now this does also make a difference for single core and a
bunch of other stuff. but again, i want to have a
fairly high-end representation kind of like the worst case scenario here. it's 12,232 that's the
number we're going to beat. spoiler alert (whispers) we're not going to beat it. now you might be wondering
what exactly have we done this time? so this is the worst case scenario. so instead of having 32 gbs
of fast dual channel memory we have a single stick of
8 gb, 2133 megahertz memory a.k.a. literally about the
slowest possible memory you could put inside of
a ryzen system like this. now it will be a surprise
to exactly no one. that this is slower, but
i was actually surprised at how much lower it really is. this configuration with
a ryzen 9 5900x processor only deliver 65% the performance of our properly optimized setup. i don't think i need to be
a math genius to figure out that's a lot of performance that you're leaving on the table. now, to be fair. we also did run the test with the same corsair vengeance that we tried initially except this running at 3,600. so it's still single channel, but at least it's running at
a more reasonable speed. and that only gave us 70% the performance of running it in the properly
optimized configuration. so if you are using a medium
to high-end ryzen processor pretty much any ryzen processor really, but especially some of
these like higher end ones and you're running a single stick of ram you're losing serious performance. so here again we've done a little bit
of an extreme comparison. so we have a 16 gb, high-end
3,600 megahertz stick of ram paired with a very
low-end 8 gb stick of ram for total of 24 gigabytes. the problem really here is
going to be in the speed when you're running
mismatched sticks of ram they're always going to
default to the lowest speed. i can't run one, stick of ram at 36 and the other one at 21. it doesn't work like that, right. they're really tied together. so with this set, i've actually defaulted
to the base 2133 speed which means that even though
i've got my dual channel memory i'm still only running
it 77% of the performance of running in the optimized configuration with two matching sticks of ram. it's not really recommended
from a perspective of the motherboard
manufacturers and whatnot. should work, maybe random
crash here or there but probably more importantly, even though it is better than running
in single channel mode. we're still losing a lot of performance not by running it at
those higher clock speeds. than at least some of
our ram is capable of. this video is sponsored by the new roccat kone
pro and kone pro air. these are the latest in their
legendary line of gaming mice as they are now only
incredibly light coming in at 66 grams for the wired
kone pro and only 75 grams for the wireless kone pro.
that pair with roccat's heat treated glides, make
them slide like butter. although don't slide
them on actual butter. that seems like a bad idea. underneath they share the
same 19,000 dpi owl-eye sensor for precision and they also
have the aimo rgb support. which looks especially nice
through the honeycomb pattern that you can see through the surface. that gives the mice
the strength to survive through intense gaming sessions without sacrificing weight
and importantly ergonomics of the kone to make it incredibly
comfortable to play with. so if you're in need of
a gaming mouse upgrade definitely be sure to go
check out the roccat kone pro and kone pro air at the
link in the description. and of course, huge shout out to roccat. for sponsoring this portion of the video. - now this one's not really a myth. we know this to be true. - oh, okay, cool. - can static kill your components? - well, okay. so if you've ever seen a pc tutorial from the year 2012. they tell you to use your
anti-static wrist band and stuff a little spoiler for ya. i have never ever done that. well, and they think this is one of the things that may
have changed over time. i would wager that components
are better shielded now than they were 10-20 years ago. right? my big question is this. when it comes to working
on or building a computer. how worried do you really
need to be static electricity? (panting) how long do i have to do this before i have enough of
a static shock you think? oh, they are, well i just wore off half of my sock. didn't i? wait, i should really start doing this. i'm really destroying my socks right now. what should i touch? so we have a graphics card in here. we have some ram. - [ken] motherboard. - i wasn't static enough. i'm not getting any static electricity. this is harder than i thought. don't mind me. (wind blower blowing) ooh. i feel some static. i can feel like the hairs
on my ear standing up. okay hang on. i'm no clown (giggles) that's all. that's all
i have to say. yeah. - [ken] oh yeah - ready?
- do it. do it. do it. - no, nothing. (balloon pops) - so the side of the
graphics card is sharp and i popped the balloon. that's not really testing a myth. balloons will pop if you
shove them inside pcs. today i learned. i think we're going to have to go back to the drawing board and figure out what kind of electricity static really is consisted of. right? i assume it's going to be very high volts and very low amps. but what is that number? and is there a way that
we can replicate it without socks on carpet and balloons? this is gonna be a lot
harder than i thought. there were a lot of variables involved with getting a static shock. so we're gonna take all
that out of the equation and we're going to get a
little more scientific. so what we're using here
is a regulated power supply going into a tesla coil,
which we have a little bit of wire running right up to the ram, theoretically this will deliver up to 50,000 volts
directly to that memory. and that would be the equivalent of a very strong static shock. now the system, as you can see is running. so we've got a cinebench
render going on right now. so it's running at full capacity. also, of course don't try this at home. we have our friendly neighborhood wes on standby with the fire extinguisher. so safety, it's important kids. don't burn your house down. trust me, not fun. are we ready? and.. whew, are systems still running? i mean, system's stable. we can actually just do that again. i'm gonna crank it. whew. it is still on. that has not stopped rendering. so.. look. is this a definitive test? absolutely not, but
that is more electricity than i would ever have
from a static shock. and we're running that in
a pretty consistent look, it's going straight into the memory and it is not enough to cause
a problem with the system. let's do it around some of the vrm maybe? ready and activate. oh, look at that flowing
straight in there. do you see that? i love that sound too. and the system is absolutely
chugging away, no problem. what? you think are
going to be done that fast? clearly you should never
try this at home, but i mean if we're going to be a
myth-busting duo today gotta be thorough. right? right? - [ken] sure. - if 3.8 million volts is not enough to severely impact this pc. i'm going to be really surprised. everyone ready? okay. we're going to get one shot at this. okay. three.. two.. one. (electric buzz) nothing, at all. wow. hold on a second. all right. three.. two.. one. (electric buzz) oh, it did kill it. okay. that did kill the system. all right. at least we got a crash. so the fans are cranking into overtime. let me actually unplug the system and see if it comes back up. because that was a really sustained burst. i mean, it's doing things. wow! that is 3.8 million volts! again for context, static
electricity is usually about 20,000, directly to
the memory on the system. and it's coming up no problem. look at that. full 8 gbs of ram showing up. no problem. now of course. when you're building a pc, you don't have the protections of the case and the power supply to
keep you grounded. right? so there could still be an edge case where a ton of static
electricity builds up and hits just the right
part of the component. it's maybe, maybe possible. but i find it to be really hard to believe that a modern system, would
sustain serious damage with something as simple
as a static shock. stun guns, maybe a little
bit more aggressive but i'm legitimately really impressed. that is crazy. - a certain website may
or may not have made a pc tutorial
(austin laughs) a couple of years ago. - oh. let's do it!
- very infamous. uh-huh. yeah, yeah.
- this person sent a gif to us. and he just said use the whole tube of thermal paste. (austin laughs) - oh god. okay. - you can't ever be too sure if your surface area is
covered or not. right? i mean.. - ken are you the kind of
guy who wears two condoms? and then, that just completely
negates the whole thing. - [matt] that's why you wear three. (laughs) - alternate thermal paste examples. what happens if we use toothpaste? i've never done it before. i've seen so many memes. i mean, look, this myth
has a lot to it, right? will it work? there's only one way to find out. so testing this one
should actually be fairly straightforward. so first
we're going to do a control with the cpu running as it should. so this is a ryzen 5 1600x
running on an x570 motherboard. and we also have the wraith cooler. so we're going to be running cinebench. i've already run it stock,
which our score is 6398. so that's the score to beat. so right now it's idling
at about 31-32 degrees. but while we're running the test it topped out at just
under 62 degrees celsius. ordinarily, when you're building a pc you want to put roughly the size of a grain of rice on your processor. that's all you need. however, that's not what we're testing. this is what we're testing right now. oh, ugh. that hurts so much. if you're ever in a scenario where your hand slipped or something you should immediately wipe
that off and call it a day. but it's not the myth we're testing. this is about to go absolutely everywhere. oh, i felt it squish. ew. oh my god. that is disgusting. that is actually disgusting. i've got the cooler on. i actually don't see that much
thermal paste leaking out. so running the cinebench test again, this time with way too much thermal paste, almost exactly the same. we were within one degree of the temperature and it's 6423. so i think it's safe to say
that too much thermal paste while it's certainly not a good
idea in terms of cleanliness and of just making a mess of things. now comes the real test. what happens when we take all that sweet thermal paste away, and
replace it with toothpaste? this is a terrible idea. (sniffs) ooh, that smells good. - this is definitely going
to make it run cooler because of all the minty-freshness. (laughs) - i'm just gonna go for it. ooh, that just looks, that's gross. you know what actually is kind of weird? it's a warm toothpaste. cause the cpu is still
warm from our benchmarking. it's like a little bit
of a different aroma. all right. here goes nothing. it's nice knowing you little cpu. i'm going to put the cooler on
now and ask questions later. and with that, our
toothpaste is installed. i've got to say just like
what the thermal paste. maybe i didn't use enough. it's actually not really squirting out. let's actually fire up
cinebench and see what happens with this cpu temperature. let's remember that with the
optimal conditions, you know, using thermal paste the way it's intended. we saw about 62 degrees. so our final temperature looks like it's just under 74 degrees. so we went from 61-62 to about 73-74 degrees. so say 12 degrees celsius. but our score exactly the same 6,412. we lost zero performance going from thermal paste to toothpaste. i think long-term, there's no way this toothpaste doesn't dry out. there's a way this toothpaste
might corrode the metal. i mean, there's a lot
of problems with this as a long-term solution, right? i mean, i think we've got to
say that this is not a myth. this is actually a real thing. you can cool your cpu with toothpaste. you probably shouldn't but.. i guess you can? - i don't know why anyone would do this, - (austin laughs) great start.
- but i think. i think this is something
that people have, you know in their morbid curiosity
probably thought of. can you wash your pc components in a dishwasher - no!
- and use them as long as you drive them thoroughly - uh-uh, putting in a dishwasher. first of all, no soap. soap seems like a very bad idea - i have a feeling. if you just take those components that we wash. let it dry out.
- aw man. - i think it would work. i mean, why wouldn't it work? - hello and welcome to
austin's kitchen vlog corner where today i'm going to be expertly washing a motherboard. you know what you need on youtube is a guy in his kitchen trying to tell you that you should wash
components to make them faster. the top, this seems like the smart move. no. no, i don't do it like this, do i? this is so stupid. why am i doing this? i was hoping to avoid the
sort of stronger stuff on the bottom, but i don't
think it's going to work. goodbye motherboard it's nice knowing you. this is such a bad idea. oh, it's running. all right. it has been over an
hour now and let's see. what we've got inside. i mean, i'm sure it's
gonna look fine, right? oh, wow. it's so warm. oh my god, it's absolutely soaked. looks fine. nothing is missing. nothing has fallen out. it just seems like it's just washed. all right, so now that the
board has had a day to dry. we have our motherboards set up on the test bench and there's really only one thing for it. do we see any signs of life? i don't know. (laughs) this one's going to be sketchy. turn on power. oh! that's a very good sign. i turned on the power
supply, we have leds. so at least something's happening. if there's any signs
of life here, i almost going to consider this to be a success. ready and.. ooh. nothing. i'll try to jump it. that should be working though. nothing. so i think it's safe to say that you should not
wash your pc components in the dishwasher and that this is a dumb idea. (upbeat music)