for decades,
people have dreamed  of technology that could
transport them somewhere else--  a teleporter machine
 that would beam them from point a to point b
just like that. but will this technology
ever actually exist? and if so,
what would it look like?  i'm marques brownlee,
 and i review dope new tech.  but on this show,
 i'm rewinding the clock  to look at the tech
 of the past  that we thought
 would be our future.  this is "retro tech:
 teleportation." hey, what's up?
mkbhd here. so, i'm about
to unbox something. don't know what it is. there's clearly
not a teleporter under this desk, right? let's figure it out. okay. wow, that is a colorful box. virtual boy.
this is a console. interesting. virtual boy, teleporters-- oh, is this
a virtual reality headset? this graphic is
so incredibly '90s, it's hard to tell
what's going on, but i feel like
i'm seeing a vr headset. and i guess if you're putting
two and two together, teleportation really is, uh, it's putting you
in a different place. but in 1995,
with a good enough vr headset, maybe that's the equivalent of putting you
in a different place. all right,
let's check this out. classic '90s packaging here.
look at all those warnings. "carefully read
this whole thing." "don't put it on your face
if you're less than seven." "may cause serious permanent
damage to their vision." "may cause epilepsy
or seizures." "repetitive strain injury." "before playing,
consult a doctor." wow. yeah, that's a lot.
that's a lot. but, hey, it's red and black.
not bad, nintendo. the tennis game,
i'm looking forward to that. batteries go in here. close it,
snap it onto the back. oh, man, i'd gone so long
without messing something up. i remember exactly
how i took it off, and it doesn't go back on
the same way. i'm blowing my own mind
right now. it should just slide down
these rails. okay, we got this. there you go.
looks like a four-inch display. all red, dot matrix.
mario versus princess. okay, i've got my backhand. hit. i hit the ball
back at 'em. the ball's coming back at me. oh, i missed, and i am now losing. wow, i'm-- i'm impressed. now, i definitely
don't feel like this is teleporting yet, but if today's
virtual reality is, like, the closest thing
we have to teleportation, then this is
the early version of that. but that's
what we're here out, so let's get into it. first thing
i'm gonna ask you to do is check underneath
your chair. ooh, oprah moment. all right. i don't know
what i'm holding right now. - i find it fascinating.
- uh, these would be-- ( plays "star trek"
teleporter sound ) oh, it-- it works! i am holding
a miniaturized teleporter. - that's fantastic.
- beam me up. marques:
so, i guess, let's break down
in its simplest terms, what exactly is teleportation?
what is this concept?  there's that famous expression,
the quickest way from point a to point b
is a straight line. and the idea of
teleportation is no line. sherri: 
 you're being beamed
 at one location,  being beamed to another. like, instantaneous.
speed of light. it's some sort of a device
that you step into or step on,  and then you arrive
 somewhere else,  on usually a matching device,  where you rematerialize
 on that side. there are so many movies
that have been built around the theory
of teleportation. keith:
 you have "power rangers."
 they're teleporting. but probably
the most iconic representation
of teleportation-- the transporter
in "star trek." mr. spock, prepare
to beam scotty on board. "star trek" drilled home that this could be future tech.  it's something that we wanted. beaming up.
notify transporter room. blake: sort of around
 the time of "star trek," we had landed on the moon,  we felt like we were being
 very ambitious as explorers. and the idea of being able
to get someplace fast is something that
we're all obsessed with. as a viewer, you hear
all of these science words. it seems like a thing
that might be possible. it uses trionic initiators
in the warp core. keith:
 so who am i, as a 10-year-old
 watching this show,  not to think, "yeah, maybe
 they've got it figured out." part of the promise
of "star trek"  is believing that we could
 get there someday. but teleportation
is one of those things that, it's so far off as a technology
to be able to achieve, and those things are possible
only in science fiction. marques:
 so, one of the most important
 aspects of a teleporter  is it has to completely
 disassemble and reassemble you  in the exact right place
 every single time.  but what would it take
 on a physics level  to build a machine
 with that type of accuracy?  to help me understand
 what's possible,  i'm meeting up with kevin
 from vsauce2,  who's known for breaking down
 some of the world's  biggest complexities. kevin, welcome
to "retro tech." thanks for having me.
i love your place. what should we know
about teleporters? what is actually possible
right now? well, we're talking
about teleporting, like, really, really,
really small things,  like a photon.  that's possible
 with quantum entanglement, - which is crazy.
- fair. yeah, i imagine
a lot of what we're
seeing in the movies  is either an exaggeration  of the little bit
 that's possible  or just completely impossible. we can't exactly visualize
what it would look like if you were dematerialized
down into atoms,  so let's just pretend
 that you turned into light. - marques: all right. 
- it's called the double
  slit experiment.  it gets complicated.
 try to stay with me here.  imagine our teleporter machine
 dematerializes you  into these light photons,  and these two slits represent
 the atmosphere pathways  your beamed body
 will travel through  on your way
 to your destination. i am ready to see this. let's energize. - huh. that is weird.
- ( kevin laughs ) somehow it turns into
a horizontal string of beads. this is called
an interference pattern. first of all, if you were
to get into a teleporter, we don't want you to be
that series of beads. it's not gonna be
a great result for you.  if you were a light beam
 transported,  you might end up
 in a scattered mess,  which would be bad.  but atoms act
 differently than light,  so in theory your atoms
 will be less scattered  going through those pathways  and easier
 to put back together.  but when scientists did
the same experiment with atoms,  the stuff you
 and i are made of,  they found atoms
 weirdly behaved the same way.  they weren't sure
 why this was happening,  so scientists tried
 to observe the atoms.  but when they pointed
 a detector to track the atoms,  they changed
 their coordinates,  meaning atoms
 can act like both waves  and particles when in motion.  to this day, scientists have
 still no clue why,  but just observing
 your atoms in motion  can change their destination,  which would be
 really bad for you,
 the person teleporting. it's like when
you're playing "mario bros" and you look at the boo
and it stops, and then you turn around
and it chases you. the observation of it
definitely changes behavior. - wow, that--
- yeah. that does hurt
my brain a little bit.  so maybe we're still
 very far away  from actually being
 able to teleport,  but what if we could achieve
 almost the same experience  without even
 leaving our homes? narrator:
 by strapping on 3d
 visual display goggles,  one can be immersed
 into new worlds. the experience
of virtual reality  is similar to teleportation
 in that your body,  your consciousness,
 your awareness
 was somewhere else, +and instantaneously
you are in a completely
different environment. marques:
 all right, let's talk about
 the history of vr. how did this whole
vr thing start? you get into the '80s and '90s
and you get the eye phone. no, not that iphone. this was the "eye,"
so, e-y-e phone. you had an individual
named jaron lanier  who wanted to create
 a new type of instrument. these are the special glasses
called the eye phones. when you put them on,
you're seeing inside
an imaginary world instead of inside
the physical world. greg:
 it was a giant headset. a huge computer had to run it.
it cost a ton of money.  but what you got
 was a virtual world  that responded to your touch
 and what you saw. blake:
 it was really the eye phone
 that helped introduce  virtual reality as a product that you might have in
your lifetime to the masses.  throughout the '90s,
 video games became more
 and more realistic,  so that became
 a great first frontier
 for virtual reality to exist.  in my mall, they had these
 vr arcade experiences,  like "dactyl nightmare." reporter:
 truly cutting-edge technology,
 but to my eyes,  these units still have
 a way to go. - but there was a problem.
- it was making people sick. headaches, nausea, sweats. - ( woman laughing )
- oh, my god! - i can see seagulls.
- okay, it's broken. blake: all types of things  that are connected
 to motion sickness. what early vr did have though,  was that it looked futuristic.  it looked super high tech.  none of them
 actually did much, but they looked cool
when your friends came over. marques:
 so, despite the technology
 being far from perfect,  virtual reality headsets
 promised to immediately  transport us
 to another world.  so, today i'm joined
 by jake from game ranks  and we're gonna test out
 some of the retro vr  and maybe get a little dizzy
 in the process. this is dope or nope. - first of all,
  jake, welcome back.
- hey, thanks for having me. season two.
love when we have people back. we got this first thing
coming to us from the year 1993. i'm ready to
get jacked in, so... for sure.
let's plug ourselves in. stuntmaster virtual reality. i already feel,
uh, young, because what
does that phrase mean? the first phrase
in the marketing copy. "race the car. fly the jet.
wear that shirt. confront. engage. fire." - wait a second, okay.
- yeah, this is a lot. race the car?
i would like to. - cool.
- sounds exciting.
  fly the jet? again, probably wouldn't be
able to do that in real life. wear the shirt?
that seems like a big step down. - maybe that's a metaphor?
  "wear that shirt."
- wow, okay. - all right.
- whatever it is, we need
  to be in a mainframe. yeah, let's-- let's see it. let's get the actual
stuntmaster headset going. "attach the clip
to the shoulder area
of the shirt." - wear that shirt!
  that's what it means.
- oh. all right,
i'm just gonna put it on. you went for it.
are you ready? - i am ready.
- welcome to the real world. oh, i heard something. super mario world. is it actually 3-d
or is it just a screen
in your face? it's not 3-d at all.
it's honestly just a worse
version of playing on a tv. this is like the worst
gameboy in my face. - oh, my face hurts so bad.
- oh, man. that might be the heaviest
vr headset i've ever worn. everything about it is pain. and so for that reason,
i'm out. - kevin: a big nope. 
- yeah. - yes!
- oh, wow. - segascope 3-d system.
- look at the dad. he's like, "yeah, son.
do that violence. good work."  marques: you can't
 see the 3d part, dad.
 why are you cheering? here is the phaser.
does it make a cool click
like the nintendo gun? no-- ooh. - not satisfying at all.
- huh. - now, the console itself.
- the console itself. look at that unit.
it is '80s as hell. it looks like a car stereo. oh, and you plug this
into your tv. this is very big.
why do you have this? it's retro tech. you gotta have a tv. start the game
with the gun maybe. magic. oh, wow. do they feel like
they're flying towards you? marques: it's not
 a very impressive depth. 'cause they look like it here, just in a flickering,
crappy way. - you did it. good job.
- i saved the city.  jake: that's actually
 kind of impressive, if not for the rampant
flickering that i know
is making me sick. low-key,
a little bit overpromising?  jake: i think it would
 get old pretty fast. i think it's
too much hassle,
too much setup. segascope 3-d, that's a nope. jake:
 that's a big nope. this guy.
virtual reality world
v.r. ninja. it's a vr headset,
and you are fighting another ninja
based on your own moves. do you want to check out
what kind of sensor
they have in here? yeah, a little mot--
that's a big sensor. - ( rattles )
- you know what
  that's telling me? that's telling me
it's a capacitive closed-circuit type
motion sensor. it's just a little
metal ball inside hitting the metal
outside of the thing. and if it touches, you moved, it touches the other side,
you moved. pretty simple.
it's not an accelerometer. - you're so smart.
- i was hoping for
  an accelerometer. so, to me, this is the closest
to modern-day vr so far. i need your guidance.
do you know how to fight? uh, barely.
like, i was a yellow belt
in tae kwon do. nice. all right, cool. - there you go.
- i feel cool now. - that fits surprisingly well.
- do you mind? i got to look for the--
yeah, power. all right. i see-- it just
looks like a calculator screen. - does it--
- not a good sign. also, do you hear?
it's pushing down on my nose and i'm talking like squidward. dude, it looks like about
30 pounds on your face. there's a time counting down
and there's ninjas. okay. that sounds
like it's working. so, unfortunately,
it relies on sound. that's the only way
i can know if i get a hit. - oh, sorry.
  where are you?
- i'm good. we're good. nothing's happening
when i punch the men.
i think i hate it. oh, my god. - good luck putting that on.
- let's get in the game. oh, my god, that is sharp. it's stabbing me in the face. i don't see anything right now. you're about to see...
everything. - oh!
- good stance. you're getting hit.
do it. - oh! oh!
- that's a hit.
  yeah, that's a hit. there-- wow!
all right, wow, okay. - ( laughs )
- i lost. vr-wise, this is
the worst vr version. it absolutely does not react to the orientation
of your head or anything. - nothing.
- it is the best
  looking one, though. - it is, yeah.
- verdict? it wasn't very good
and it stabbed me in the face. - yeah.
- so, i still have
  to give it a nope. - that is a nope.
- for the first time,
  we've given all nopes, and yet i still think
we see, like, they're on
to something happening. yeah, it just is a disaster. marques:
 so, clearly early vr gaming
 was not very good.  the technology simply
 wasn't advanced enough yet,  and most at this point had
 given up on the vr industry. the year is 2012,
not that long ago.  but it was long ago enough
 that people thought virtual reality was a joke,
it was a punch line. we all thought it was done.
it made you nauseous. but there were a few people
that still loved vr, and one of them was a teenager
named palmer lucky. virtual reality,
people have been wanting it
for a really long time. we finally have the technology
to make it happen. it used gyroscopes,
accelerometers, you know, sensors that we know very well
from the eye phone, and the latency was super low. blake: the sensors,  they're able to so quickly
 calculate in real time  what should be there
 when you look that way,  and that's what really
 tricked your brain into thinking
that you're somewhere else. all of a sudden,
we thought for a second, "hey, this might be
a thing again  because of head tracking." and it was this idea
that just by putting on  this pair of glasses,
 these goggles,  you could be anywhere. really bringing it back
to teleportation. a lot of times with technology,
we're not even conceiving of something that's
just about to arrive.  the day before
 the iphone was announced,  we didn't even conceive
 that a phone was able
 to do those things. so who knows?
maybe someone is working
on teleportation right now and we're gonna have
the ability to teleport. marques: so, back to
 the original question.  is teleportation technology
 closer than we think?  well, to find out, i'm gonna
 speak with astrophysicist  and all-around great guy
 dr. neil degrasse tyson,  and hopefully he can
 shed some light on this and tell us if we're any closer
 to actually beaming up. neil degrasse tyson,
thank you for joining me. would it be, do you think,
ever physically possible to build this idea
we've imagined of the teleportation machine? i think central
to the teleportation machine is the memory of how all of your molecules
are configured. it's an information
processing challenge. i can turn you into energy and then move that energy
to the other place and then convert that energy
back into particles. but i have to remember, i need the instruction set
to reassemble you. because once
it becomes energy, you've lost all
of that information. so, have we ever converted
anything to energy? yeah, we do that in particle
accelerators all the time. like, you can
reconstruct the same shape
in a different place, but remembering where each
molecule is inside that shape? so, let's go to a "star trek"
style teleportation. so, it disassembles
your molecules,  turns you into
 a beam of energy,  reassembles it
 on the other side. all right,
so is that still you? i have to say no.
it is a copy of you.  and basically you just
 divided yourself into two--
 basically cloning.  now, how do we turn
 that into you? what we'd need to do is
not simply copy the molecules, you have to copy
the neurosynaptic memories  that you carry
 in your brain's molecules.  all right, so, boom!
 it disappears here,
 shows up over there.  it is there instantly,
 so that all your particles  will disappear
 simultaneously  and then show up
 in another place. i don't know how
to teleport memories that exist in the static
molecules of your brain. if you could do that,
then i'm convinced we are moving you
from one location to another. do you think if virtual reality 
can get good enough that maybe that's enough
to satisfy that part
of our curiosity where we want to transport
just to see cool things? we'll just sort of put
the headset on and be there. yes, we've taken baby steps
in that direction.  but if you could smell the air
 and feel the breeze  and watch the birds
 fly over it,  maybe that's sufficient.  you don't know
 whether you are looking  at an image or reality.  at that point,
 i don't think it matters  whether you actually go
 to the grand canyon.  and then you can just change
 where your location is. but does it matter
that it's real? that's a different question. the knowledge that it's real seems to matter to us. you know, what is real? i sound like morpheus.  ( neil imitating morpheus )
 what is real?  how do you define real? if your brain is everything,
then traveling doesn't matter. we'll just inject it in you.
that could come. well, that's really deep.
thank you again. - i love your shirt.
- oh, thank you. yeah, actually it's a vest. i've got about a half dozen. ah, that's beautiful. all right,
so after all that, it can feel easy
to get pretty down
on ever seeing, ever witnessing
real life teleportation,
which i get. but i love this switch
that we flipped, where instead
of teleporting ourselves from point a to point b, the tech that turns out
makes a lot more sense is bringing b to a instantly. it's powerful. and that is now the new future that i'm really
looking forward to. thanks for watching. catch you guys
on the next one. peace.