the damage and destruction caused by hurricane
matthew this month has got flooding on my mind. water is one our most basic needs, but it
also can be our worst enemy. you may know that managing water is one of
the most important aspects of civil engineering, so today we're talking about hydraulic structures. i'm grady and this is "what's that infrastructure?",
where we divulge and discover the manmade world around us. vincent sent me this awesome photo from his
exchange term in korea. those blocks you see in the foreground are
called tetrapods. they are specially engineered to interlock
with each other to armor shorelines against waves. they dissipate the wave energy easily without
becoming dislodged. and speaking of breakwaters, i was in port
aransas, texas in september and took a walk out on the jetty which forms the south side
of aransas pass. this is a popular channel used by cargo ships
entering and exiting the intracoastal waterway, which is a nearly 5,000 kilometer-long shipping
channel that runs along the southern and eastern united states. these jetties were built by the u.s. army
corps of engineers using massive blocks of granite quarried from the texas hill country. they are a popular fishing spot, but they
also serve a more important purpose: to break the waves and slow down the erosion of the
barrier islands so the channel stays open for shipping traffic. here's another canal: joachim took these
photos on a ferry to norderney, germany. he said the tides get so low that they had
to dredge a channel almost all the way to the island. and while we're talking about ships, johannes
sent in these photos of a cantilevered pole hanging off a bridge in belgium. at the end is a funny shaped object. this is a radar reflector designed to warn
ships of an upcoming hazard. the unique design is called a corner reflector,
a type of retroreflector, which returns radar waves back toward the source no matter which
direction they came from. lydia sent in these photos from elm grove,
wisconsin where crews are reconstructing a drainage culvert under a street. lydia said that the city center in elm grove
is built on top of an actively flowing stream. this is actually an extremely common practice
in urbanized areas. small streams get buried in tunnels and culverts
to make room for the rest of the manmade environment. i don't know the details of this project,
but it looks like it might be part of the growing movement in urban design to bring
streams and rivers back aboveground, also known as daylighting or deculverting. obviously, this isn't feasible everywhere,
but it's good that we're starting to recognize the fact that streams serve a more important
purpose in our communities than just to carry rainwater away. and speaking of urban drainage, david sent
in this photo of a storm drain manhole. notice the round sticker. if a storm drain goes straight into a waterway
rather than to a treatment plant, they'll often have a marker as a reminder. if you dump something into a drain like this,
you might as well have dumped it straight into a stream, so please always dispose of
your waste correctly. peter sent me these photos of a river in munich. there's a dam or spillway here that creates
a hydraulic jump, and people use the standing wave to surf on. a hydraulic jump is a specific phenomenon
that happens when fast moving water transitions into a slower moving flow. someday i'd like to build a demonstration
and do a video all about hydraulic jumps. here's a few more photos from karl jansen's
blog both in ann arbor, michigan: a small weir with a bridge, and a spillway making
releases through a radial lift gate, also known as a tainter gate. richard sent me this awesome photo of a weir
on the river avon in bath, england. this structure is probably designed to hold
the river to a constant level, since it is an amenity in town. but when flows increase, we'd prefer if
the river didn't rise too much accordingly. flow over a weir is a function of the weir
length and the height of the water over the crest. so if you want to let more flow through without
increasing the depth of water, you have to increase the length. instead of widening the channel, engineers
sometimes just bend the weir to get more length into the same area. in fact, engineers have found some very creative
ways of cramming more and more weir length into a small area, including the piano key
weir and the labyrinth weir. thanks again to everyone who sent in photos. i never expected that so many people would
be so interested in videos about infrastructure, and it is really encouraging to receive so
many enthusiastic emails. if you've got a picture you'd like to
share, send it in to whats.that.infrastructure@gmail.com. make sure you mention that it's okay for
me to use in a video, and include your mailing address. because if i use your photo in a video, i'll
send you a practical engineering sticker. and by the way, i now have t-shirts available
on my website, and i'm really happy with how they came out. i think they look great. i've got some very cool videos in the works,
so please subscribe if you haven't already. as always, thank you for watching, and let
me know what you think.