(shapes boinging) (electrical whizzing) (switch clicking) - new intro. and there's new tech coming. i mean, there's always new tech coming, but what better time to lay it all out than the beginning of the year for some of the best stuff
we're expecting for 2024? now, there was plenty
of great tech in 2023: from smartphones to cameras to vr stuff to computers and headphones,
a bunch of good evs, and a bunch of even better ev promises. but 2024 is looking up. so these are, to me, the most interesting
new bits of tech stuff that we can look forward
to for this upcoming year. actually, right at the
beginning of every year is ces in january, where
it's out in las vegas. this year, again, i will
not be there in person, but i will have my eyes on it, and i will be seeing if
there's anything interesting that sort of bubbles up
above the rest of the noise. i can always count on you guys to send me that stuff on
twitter if you see anything. but then also, typically kicking
off every year with a bang is a january samsung event. so we're expecting s24
reveal stuff pretty soon. also, based on the leaks, it looks like s24 family is
gonna look very similar to s23. so it'll be curious to see what stuff they actually do change. but that's another january thing. we're about to get that soon. but the big headliner that appears to be right around the corner, it
feels like, is apple vision pro. this feels like maybe the most
unprecedented apple launch in a long time, certainly
in my career online. just because, you know,
love 'em, hate 'em, apple is one of the biggest
tech companies in the world, and them doing such a
weird launch like this is pretty fascinating. so they've shown it on stage, they did that announcement video. and they announced it
months ahead of time, but they have not shown
a single apple employee or executive wearing it even once. and they've let people
actually test this thing out, including myself many times, but nobody has been
allowed to film themself using it at all. and just in general, there's still a lot of
unanswered questions about how it's going to work, what it's going to be really good at, what you're going to want to use it for. are you going to have to
go into an apple store to get custom fit to actually be able to
buy one of these things? it's just shaping up to be
one of the most interesting new products in a long time. now, it's super expensive. we all know that. 3,500 bucks. so it's, for sure, not for everyone. most people i know don't
even plan on getting one, but it is for those early adopters who are curious about the vr stuff. and those who do, i already know will be very
impressed by the pass-through, which is incredible. by the immersion and the
resolution, which is really good. by the eye tracking, which
is borderline magical. but also, it feels like it's
going to be hard to review because it doesn't really compete against any of the other vr headsets. like, it is much more expensive
than any of the others. so it doesn't compete against them, but then also, it feels
like, okay, that means it has no competition,
which is kind of weird, too. it's just, it's fascinating. i will say if you wanna go back and watch my initial impressions after i first tried apple vision pro the day it got announced, i
will link that video below. that's one thing, you know, i think this headset is going to be technically impressive to
the people that try it. but the other half of the story
that's completely unwritten is, what apps are gonna come out for it? what are the killer features and the use cases going to turn out to be that it turns out apple
vision pro is really good at? i had his vision of, like,
wearing it on the airplane and watching a movie, wearing the headset
for a four-hour flight, but it's also so heavy, that i don't know if i'd
wanna wear it for that long? and will the battery
actually last that long? there's so many questions,
not a lot of answers yet, so looking forward to that for this year. but you know what i have
almost no doubt about? i'm calling it now, remember
the word "multimodal." just for 2024, this is going to be the
year of multimodal ai. see, we've seen so much of the focus on ai for these past couple years. or, the past two years or so,
it feels like a long time. but it's mainly just been
these chatbots, right? where they're trained
on all this information, and then you give it a text prompt, and it gives you a text answer. so it could generate, you know,
some new interesting prompts or it can summarize something for you or it can sort of spit
out something creative. but it's text in, text out. but we are right now at the
beginning of starting to see what's called multimodal ai,
which all that really means is it's more than one
different type of medium input into this ai system. so it'll be able to
understand text or audio or images or video and be able to work with that
and still give you an output. so google got in trouble
a couple of days ago because they faked a video. and it's still on their youtube channel. it's a six-minute video of them asking their new multimodal
gemini ultra ai model a bunch of different questions in a row about, you know, stuff it
sees being put on a table, drawings. you know, this guy puts objects
in the frame, et cetera, and it's very conversational
about all this stuff. (cups scraping) - [gemini] the cup to the left. - [demonstrator] nice! - so that was fake. or, at least, heavily edited. but i honestly didn't really care. the idea, to me, of it
actually being that advanced, it never crossed my mind that that could be actually realtime. but the idea, the idea of being able to feed your virtual assistant anything, that, to me, is the leveling up of this ai that we've been hoping for. just being able to give it
whatever's in front of you. just be able to show it
something or type out text or read it something or whatever, and all of that still works? i'm excited for eventually having a multimodal google assistant,
whenever that happens. i also even did a short recently about the meta ai smart glasses. they have a camera on the front, but they also have an ai model in the glasses themselves,
in the computer. and that ai model is now,
in an early access program, multimodal, and so you can
look at stuff with the glasses, and it'll be able to help you with it. look, all i'm saying is multimodal ai. just remember that word for now. and that's not even counting
all the rest of the stuff ai is genuinely useful for that's not even consumer-facing, from finding patterns in
immense amounts of data to be able to better predict
and control wildfires or to be able to invent new
materials or cure diseases. what a world we live in. - we truly live in an age of wonders. - now, new hardware is always fun, right? you know, new phones, new tablets, new computers, all that stuff. you wanna know something
interesting, though, about last year? not a single new ipad
was released in 2023. makes you think. now, the thing about the ipad is apple does tend to
make a couple occasional, like, amazing hardware
changes to the ipad pro. i think the ipad pro is genuinely one of the most impressive
pieces of hardware tech that i've ever used. and then they do that every year or two, but then at the end of the day you use it, and it's still an ipad. so i say this with some hesitation, but i am actually really looking forward to seeing the rumored new oled ipad pro in 2024. that's something we've heard
that we might get for a while. we already have an oled s8 ultra. that tablet is amazing looking, and i wanna see a super bright
oled display on an ipad. we'll see if that shows up soon. but one more interesting design change we're actually expecting with apple, is actually the watch 10, the series 10 10th generation apple watch. all signs are pointing towards a truly redesigned apple watch for the first time really ever in this year's apple watch 10. now, i mean, let's be real: apple watch has looked kind
of the same for a long time. yes, the ultra is a little different. it's a little bigger, a
little flatter on the front. but the series 9 looks
just like a series 8, which looks just like a
series 7, series 6, series 5. so they're all the same shape, other than basically the bezel
getting a little bit thinner. now, change for the sake of change isn't really useful on its face, but i just think the apple watch feels like it actually could
use a fresh coat of paint, just a little design, a little
refresh to get up to date with the galaxy watches of the world. nice circles. i think it would look nice. also, have you heard that the apple watch is, like, dangerously close
to being banned in the us? which is a whole separate story maybe worth a whole separate video. we'll stay tuned on that. oh, and rcs on the iphone. i'm excited for rcs to finally come to the
iphone sometime in 2024. they haven't said when, but
apple's committed to it. i usually don't root for tech to die, but i do think it's time to
be done with sms forever. so, welcome on board. now, this one's more general, but i am actually hoping this year for some actually interesting smartphones. i'll put it that way. because obviously, this is probably a
little bit of a crazy ask because smartphones are clearly mature, and they all are kind of looking the same, and they improve a little bit every year. even the folding ones now are kind of looking the same
as they did the year before. but i think this is a good ripe time for a new, maybe mid-range. it's not gonna be the
flagship, the big hitters, but maybe a mid-range smartphone to really try something crazy new. it might be a crazy risky
thing, might not happen, but i'm hoping that we do get to see something like that in 2024. and then, also, i've said this before, but every single year for
the next probably 15 years is going to be the most interesting year for electric cars yet, and i don't think 2024 is
any exception to that rule. and, you know, we've got a
bunch of really solid evs already out there in the world, right? the most popular new car
in the world is an ev, and there's already some really
good ones in north america. also, the nacs port has very quickly gotten a ton of commitments from pretty much everyone
making electric cars. so basically, tesla superchargers will be available to
way more electric cars. great. now, this year coming up, we already have tesla cybertrucks starting
to hit the streets. that's pretty crazy. we are also definitely expecting a model 3 and model y refresh very soon, imminently. i mean, the model 3 refresh
is already out there. it's shipping in europe and asia, and i think it'll be
in the us pretty soon. now, stay tuned to the auto focus channel for a look at those. we also just got a crazy
porsche taycan refresh drop a crazy nurburgring lap time. so that looks to be a
competitor to the model s plaid at the very high end. but also there should be way more hopefully more affordable evs coming out over the next couple of years. so all of this, plus some hybrids that
are somewhere in between for people not ready to go fully electric, that should all be the
most interesting year yet for auto focus stuff. so i'm excited for that. and then, of course,
there's lots of other tech that i am hoping to see take
strides forward this year. but also, i wanted to cap this
off with some of the videos that i'm most looking
forward to here this year. so last year, there were 70-plus
new videos on this channel, which were super fun. and i have this, like, threshold for what i consider
like a certified banger. like, when a video... when people approached me in real life mentioning one of these videos, there were a couple that
really bubbled to the top, and those were the tesla solar roof video. the tesla cybertruck, actually. apple vision pro, for sure. and the formula 1 explain video. those all popped off. i really enjoyed the formula
1 explain video, though, because obviously, that sport
is incredibly high-tech. but i also think, low-key,
there is a lot of other tech in a lot of other sports
that's worth highlighting that i think would be super
fun to make videos about. now, some of it is in the sport itself. some of it is in the
training for the sport, you might be surprised by. some of it is in the broadcast. like, you already know about
those highlight moments. tennis match, you see the
ball, the slow-mo camera, and it hits just, like, on the line, and you get that replay instantly. the line of scrimmage in football. the pitch count and the
strike zone in baseball. there's tons of stuff like that. my point is i'm probably making
sports tech videos in 2024 because i've had a lot of fun with those, and i happen to be very
interested in that. but then i also wanna do more
collaborations in general. i've had a lot of fun with
the "waveform" podcast. which if you haven't
already subscribed there, link below, get subscribed. but we have guests on there all the time, which are really fun. and it highlights how much you can learn from having conversations with people. i think my creator conversations
are some of my favorites. but also, just in general collaborations with people on youtube. so if y'all have suggestions for people, for channels you'd like to
see us collaborate with, definitely leave a comment below because that's on the high list for me. and then, there's a few top-secret projects we've been working on over here for a while that are finally going to launch in 2024. you'll know 'em when you see 'em. there'll be huge announcements. stay tuned here, on twitter, and everywhere else for that stuff. i've included easter eggs
to the two biggest ones in this video. they're subtle, but once
they're announced, you'll know. so, yeah, look forward to all that stuff for the new calendar year. i'm gonna wrap it up here. thanks for watching. see you in 2024. like, starting now. peace.