- this is a 75 inch 8k tv and today we're gonna be
gaming on it using this. so thanks to intel for
sponsoring this video and providing us with the
brand new asus zenbook flip s, powered by the 11th gen
of core i7 processors. one of the biggest advantages
with the 11th gen processors are the new xe graphics, which are not only twice as powerful as the last generation of intel laptops but importantly, they
are now very competitive with a lot of dedicated gpus
like the nvidia mx series. to really push this to the
limit, we have thunderbolt, which of course was
co-engineered originally by intel and this is the latest thunderbolt 4 spec which will enable us to connect
an external graphics card all the way up to an rtx 3080 to see exactly how much we
can push this thin and light laptop to become an absolute gaming monster. so if you've watched
the channel for a while you know that we've done some
crazy thunderbolt setups. at one point, we had an entire triple screen
gaming monitor hooked up to a thin and light laptop
using a thunderbolt gpu. well, thankfully things
have come a very long way since we did that video to the point where you
can fit a full rtx 3080 inside an enclosure that
is, admittedly kind of large, but who cares, right? look, those intel xe graphics are no joke. i mean, especially for like gaming on the actual laptop screen, they're more than good enough as you'll see later in the video. when it comes to doing something
a little bit more ultimate, shall we say, having
the full rtx card inside is gonna make a big difference. so i will say you're not
really supposed to open this up but i'm sure it'll be fine. now, the way that they're
actually able to get a full rtx 3080 in this
is by liquid cooling it. so not only do you have a
ridiculously powerful card but you also have a
ridiculously powerful card that doesn't totally
take up your entire desk. so inside here, you'll see our rtx 3080. you have our two 120
or 140 millimeter fans. there's a radiator in here. there's a lot of stuff
packed into this gaming box. but the important thing is on the back. all of this power is being handled through this single thunderbolt port. now you get some extra stuff. obviously you can connect
a bunch of monitors, usb, ethernet, all that kind of stuff, but it's all being connected to the laptop with this single cable which means that if this works we're gonna have 8k gaming. will it work? still not sure about that. stay tuned. i need to come up with a
new idea for this video, if it doesn't work, so. this set up is actually pretty simple. so we have our rtx 3080 gaming box which we need one cable to connect it from the laptop to the gaming box. and then we need an hdmi 2.1 cable to go from our gaming box to the tv. so the only thing that
you need to keep in mind with stuff like 8k is that the hdmi cables that you use actually are very important. most cables will not work. you need to make sure
that it is certified. and i really hope that this one is. i'm pretty sure it is though. hdmi 4. hello. hey, wow, that's bright. oh my god. - [ken] oh, that's hdr, okay. - ooh, it's so bright. my eyes are bleeding. - [ken] that is really bright. - that is so bright. ooh, okay. now that we have fixed
our screen brightness let's take a look and see
what the system is seeing. so second display shows up as 4k. can we go higher? we cannot go higher. okay. here we go. hdmi 4, 8k, engage. here we go. come on. you know you wanna do it? oh, okay. well something's working. okay. so you have the second
display and it shows up at, oh, 7680 by 4320. here we go. oh my god, dude, that looks so... look how sharp the windows
logo is, literally this small. i am like three inches away from this and i can barely see pixels. 8k is so sharp, like from here. like i can see the
difference between this icon which is clearly made for 8k
and the edge icon which isn't. here's the really crazy part. we're at 300% scale right now. let's set it to a hundred percent. watch this. (austin laughs) wait, hang on. - [ken] so there's the phone, right? let's take it back. (austin laughs) that's kinda crazy. - yo. okay. - [ken] oh my god, blizzard
is so small on there. - oh no. ken, we've got a 12 gigabyte download. - [ken] it always has stuff to download. this game never stops
downloading anything. how many edge windows can you? - edge well like individual
window...(indistinct) - [ken] let's just see, like
in terms of usable windows like how many can you
actually have on here? - we have sixteen windows open. if i was a little bit better i could probably add a couple more. oh, wait, no, wait, hang on. sorry. excuse me. now we have 16. what if we try to play 16
this is videos at once? - [ken] yes. - all right. where did it go. this is also just a test. not only of 8k but of can this laptop and the 11th gen processor
handle this many things running at the same time. like honestly, i don't think
it will be able to play 16 or 15 videos all once. that sounds like it's too much. - [ken] you say that but it's actually. - oh wait. no it's oh,
they're already running, look. - [ken] yeah i know,
that's what i was saying, they're all autoplaying. - wow. look at that. we have 15 videos all
playing at the same time. dude that is seriously impressive. right now we're running an 8k display where we have 15 videos running. we're downloading and
patching a version of cold war and we're running at 40% cpu. all right. here goes nothing. let's see what happens when
we try to play a game at 8k. oh wow. okay. that looks sharp. we'll give it a second
to get everything set up. we wanna give it a fair shot. we wanna make it compile the
shaders before we try to play. we're at, wait what! we're at 120 hertz. what? it defaulted to 1080p 120. - [ken] oh, to be fair,
that was the resolution that i had set before. - oh, okay. all right. boom 8k. all right. and now lets apply. you have used maximum capacity. oh, oh wait, hold on a second. we're gonna hit the limits not of our laptop, but of the gpu. so the rtx 3080 only has,
"only" has 10 gigs of ram. so you can see right here. we're actually maxing
out the vram at 14 gigs. all right. so let's turn settings down
until we get it to be better. are we really gonna have a problem? wait, let's turn off ray tracing. so disabling ray tracing
got us a lot closer. that's fine. so ultra performance, i'll recommended it for 8k
gameplay only. perfect. okay. subsurface scattering off. oh. oh, there we go. wow. look at the difference there. so let's do low on that. - [ken] we are still really
up there on that meter, but... - all right, it still thinks we're over. but i think with 8k on low settings we'll actually hopefully have enough. all right, here goes nothing. and we are, oh, look at that. oh, this dude 67 fps. are you serious right now? look at that. this is 100% playable,
look at how sharp that is. i remind you if i was actually really
properly playing the game i probably wouldn't be
playing at lower settings. like i'd probably rather play it like 4k or something
realistically, but who cares? we're playing at 8k. i really should reload my gun. that is so sharp. like i'm gonna play right here. i can see every little bit
of detail in this game. oh, i can't actually sit
that close to the tv. dude, you know what, with
how smooth this is running we can actually probably turn
the settings up even farther. - [ken] just to be fair, with
where this is at right now, i'd take a locked 60. - you know, this is, i
mean it's not quite locked when we're bouncing around a little bit. - [ken] i mean, it's not
locked in the sense of like it's stuck at 60, but we
haven't dipped below 60. - yeah. so here's the thing, right? this laptop is not a gaming laptop. i mean, you can see, just look up tiny and thin it is, right? this is not meant as a gaming pc. however, the fact is with a
single cable and an external gpu we can go out to get 8k performance. mind you it might get low yeah you might wanna play that at 4k if you're gonna be realistic,
but that is incredible. but this is just the start of what you can get with one
of these intel evo laptops and specifically with
these zenbook flip s. so, first of all, of course this is one of the intel
evo certified laptops. now if you're familiar
with intel's project athena from last year this is essentially a
certification program which essentially means that the laptop needs to
be very high-performing in pretty much all aspects. needs to have good battery life, needs to have things like
wifi 6, like thunderbolt 4 and you also need to have a
high level of performance. so things like having a
full level of performance when you're unplugged and
away from the wall, right? so as someone who does
a lot of benchmarking oftentimes you'll see that you
have really good performance when you're plugged in but as soon as you go on battery life it goes into a very, very restrictive mode well sure it'll get you a
little bit more battery life but means that the laptop runs super slow. thankfully, that is not the case here. now speaking a little
bit more specifically about the hardware, it is very nice. so this is one of the
thinnest laptops out there and yet it actually has
a good selection of ports generally speaking. so not only do we have a
pair of thunderbolt 4 ports which you can use to of course connect to your 8k gpu or of course just charge. we will also have a full-size
hdmi and a full-size usb-a which is impressive to fit in such a small and thin
form factor. the only downside is they did have to sacrifice
the headphone jack, which may or may not be important to you. they do thankfully include one in the box but i would have liked to
have sort of had my cake and ate it too. now the rest of hardware is very nice. so this has using a full
4k oled touch display. now ,yeah, sure you can do the
whole like tilty flippy guy but the most important thing
here is an incredibly sharp and incredibly vibrant panel. now, personally would i
have liked to have seen is slightly taller aspect ratio, yes but ultimately this is
one of the nicest displays you can get on a laptop like this. and the same thing goes for
the rest of the hardware, great keyboard, good trackpad. and because this thing
is so thin and light you actually do still get
pretty decent battery life. the only real sacrifice they've made here is by making it so thin, because of that, the cooling solution, it's a little bit more limiting than some of the other 11th
gen laptops i've tried. still enough to give you
a ton of performance, obviously, as you saw from
the demo with the 8k gaming. however when it comes to playing more hardcore games specifically on the actual laptop itself, there is a touch of throttling that you might not see if
you get a thicker laptop but as always, you have
to make trade-offs. and the big one here is that when you go up to these
11th gen processors the graphics are that big step forward. now of course this is not a gaming laptop but with those intel xe graphics inside the 11th gen processors it does give you a lot more performance and importantly, you
also do have flexibility of expanding with things
like thunderbolt 4 which can enable you to do
things like actual 8k gaming or all kinds of other stuff. i mean, i use thunderbolt
with my devices every day. so if you're interested in learning more about the zenbook or
the intel evo program definitely be sure to check out
the links in the description and until the next time i try
to do something dumb with 8k, thank you very much for watching.