- hey guys, this is austin. with the ps5 on the horizon, is now the time to buy a ps4? this is a serious question. i mean, the playstation 4
came out almost six years ago, and sony's already started detailing a lot of info on what the next generation is going to look like. on the other hand, the end of a life cycle is almost always a great
time to buy a console. not only has the hardware
become cheaper since launch, but it's almost always gotten better, which begs the question,
is the ps4 worth in 2019? this video is sponsored
by the new lg gram 2-in-1. in addition to the 2-in-1 design, this doesn't give up the
best parts of being a gram. so not only is it still super-lightweight, but it also has that massive
all-day battery life. inside, you got plenty of power with an intel core i7 processor, and it has all the basics covered: a great build quality,
screen, keyboard, you name it. i've liked the gram for years now, and this is the best version yet, so if you guys are
interested in learning more, definitely be sure to go check out the gram in the description, and huge shout out to lg
for sponsoring this video. if you've never owned a ps4 or maybe you have the original model, then there actually have been some pretty substantial upgrades
over the last few years. first of all is the ps4 slim. now this is very much
the standard slim model that most consoles get. it's a little bit smaller, quieter, and cooler than the og ps4, but besides faster wi-fi, it's basically the same experience. next up, we have the big
guy, the playstation 4 pro. now this is an actual
upgrade over the ps4, as not only does it
have much better specs, but that enables it to run
games at 1440p or even 4k in much higher resolution than the 1080p of the standard ps4. pricing is interesting. so the base ps4 today is $300, which is only $100 less than
the launch model sic years ago, and generally speaking, it
is pretty rare for the ps4 to go on sale, which is a
huge contrast to the xbox one, which basically lives, like, $75 less than its msrp at all times. the ps4 pro has an msrp of $400, and while it does sometimes
go a little bit below that, generally speaking, that
is the price you'll pay. however, i actually think this
is a very reasonable upgrade. for only 75 to $100
more than the base ps4, you're getting a lot more power, which, in my opinion, is
well worth the upgrade. now that's all on the new side, but typically speaking,
when you buy a console this late into the generation, the used market is a great option to save yourself a bunch of cash. however, that's really
not the case with the ps4. using gamestop as the benchmark, you're only saving about $50 by buying an original used ps4 as opposed to a brand-new slim. now you can go to ebay and
save a little bit more money, but still, you're generally
paying around $200, which to me just isn't
that great of a deal when you can buy an xbox one s brand-new with a bundled game all day
long for about the same money. now this isn't totally crazy. the ps4 has pretty much become the standard de facto
console this generation. with almost 100 million sold, it's an easy argument to make that the ps4 is the best
place to play right now. if we go back to the ps3, last generation, sony really struggled. now, the ps3 was a
technically-superior console, but it was expensive and complicated, which meant that a lot
of people and developers focused their attention on the xbox 360, and while they were able
to recover toward the end, sony most certainly learned their lessons when they came to building the ps4. sony made sure that the ps4 was as focused as possible on gaming. so while both the ps4 and xbox one share a very similar amd-based
pc hardware inside, the ps4 not only has a bigger
gpu but also faster memory, which means that it is straight-up faster than the base xbox one. many games run at 1080p on the ps4, whereas on the xbox one, they have cuts to either
resolution or quality. now usually these cuts are somewhat minor. who wants to have the
inferior experience, right? ps4 for a very long time
has been the obvious choice. now today, things have
changed a little bit with the introduction of the xbox one x, which is more powerful
than not only the ps4, but importantly, it's more
powerful than the ps4 pro. that being said, though, a ton of people still
have the base consoles, and here it's just not a fair fight. the ps4 is a superior device. the ps4 does have another key
advantage, upgradeability. with the xbox one, it's kind of a box. i mean, there's really
no reason to open it up unless you're looking for easter eggs, but the ps4 has full access to change out the internal hard drive. i've done a video on this before, but it is not a complicated process. on all of the ps4 models, there is a single screw as well as a door that will allow you to get access to the 2.5-inch hard drive, and from there, it is
very simple to swap it out and reinstall the operating system. the main advantage here is
that you get the ability to upgrade not only the
storage but also the speed. so for only about $90 or so, you can upgrade to a two-terabyte sshd which would give you
more speed and capacity, or if you want to go all out, you can pick up a two-terabyte
ssd for 210 bucks. it is a huge, huge upgrade, and it's super-simple to do on the ps4. now this is not completely necessary, as both the ps4 and xbox support usb 3.0 hard drives or ssds, which is a much simpler way of doing it, but i really do appreciate the fact that the ps4 allows me
to upgrade my own console and swap in whatever drive i want. while the ps4 is no
longer the obvious choice when it comes to multi-platform games since the one x exists, however, when it comes to exclusives, sony absolutely has microsoft beat. games like uncharted 4 or god of war, horizon zero dawn, gran
turismo and spider-man are all completely exclusive
to the playstation, and these are some of the
best games of the generation. it's easy to say that, oh, look, playstation's the obvious place to play, but i mean, these games really
do give you a great reason on why you should pick
up one of the consoles. this is where the used
market can come in clutch. a lot of these games can
be found for $20 or less. now this is the generation
where a lot of people, myself included, had
switched over to all-digital. however, if you're buying
a playstation 4 in 2019, you should absolutely go spend a few bucks to get a lot of these excellent games for super-cheap on the used market. i haven't even talked about
the non-exclusives, either. so you've got games like call of duty, destiny, and of course gta 5, which while it got its
start on last generation, really came into its own with the ps4 as well as the xbox one. another terrific game this generation is red dead redemption 2, which while it looks pretty
decent on the ps4 and ps4 pro, it's still better on the one x. but there is not getting around that any of these options are a lot better than the base xbox one. it's, uh, challenged. blurry, (chuckling) some might say. blurry's probably the word. all that is to say that there are some legitimately good reasons to pick up an xbox. in fact, if you actually
don't have an xbox one or ps4, i think it's a pretty easy bet to say that the xbox is the better
choice to buy right now. first of all, the value
is absolutely here. so at just over $200, the xbox one s does lag behind
the standard ps4 in visuals, but it's not a massive difference, and it does have some
key upgrades of its own, including an ultra hd blu-ray player that you can't find on
any version of the ps4. the one x is also a
surprisingly good value. so while the msrp is $500, you can find this guy on amazon for less than the ps4 pro right now. considering that it's a better console in almost every single way, it is hard to argue with that. i also prefer the xbox
controller to the ps4. not by a lot, mind you. both sony and microsoft did
a good job this generation, and stuff like the touchpad
are nice on the playstation. however, i really feel like microsoft completely
nailed the ergonomics. i love the way this controller feels. probably the biggest
upside to the xbox though is backwards compatibility. even the original xbox one can play a lot of 360 titles and
even some og xbox ones. step up to the one x, and not only can you
play all the same games, but a lot of them can be upscaled to 4k, and it is an incredibly cool feature to see these old-school games being run at a proper high resolution and a lot of times with much
better texture filtering than they ever did on original consoles. now sony does have some
backwards compatibility, but, well, it just really can't compete. so there are some ps2 games
which have been upgraded to work on the playstation 4, and using playstation now, you can stream a fair
few playstation 3 games, but the issue here is that, first of all, the library isn't as good, and second of all, you have
to pay for all of these. now while microsoft does sell a lot of the original xbox
and 360 titles in the store, you actually don't have to buy them. if you have the original discs, all you do is put it in your xbox, allow it to download an update, and you're up and running
for absolutely zero dollars and zero cents. free 99, as the kids say. all this brings me to one
of the most important points on whether or not you should buy a ps4. you might not actually have to. sony's already confirmed
that the playstation 5 will support not only ps4 games, but importantly, a lot of the
accessories such as ps vr. if you could pick up a ps4
for a bargain-basement price, i think it would be a no-brainer. but if you haven't
actually bought a ps4 yet, i think, really, for most people, you're better served just
waiting for that ps5. speaking of the ps5, i've done an entire video all about it to give you a good sense
of what the performance will look like when it
comes out in, like, a year, and, like, three months or something?