when the covid-19 pandemic was just getting 
started in early 2020, every major city,   state health department, and federal agency 
involved built out data dashboards you could   access online to check case counts and trends. 
public health officials could constantly be   heard asking everyone to "flatten the curve," that 
curve being a graph of infection rates over time.   but how do you get such a graph? by and large, 
our measure of the pandemic came through   individual case counts confirmed with laboratory 
testing and reported to a data clearinghouse like   the local public health department or the cdc. 
there was a lot of confusion about testing,   positivity rates, how that information applied 
to the greater population, and how it could be   used to implement measures to slow the spread of 
disease. the limitations of individual testing   data - including test shortages, reporting delays, 
and unequal access to healthcare - made public   health decisions extremely challenging. 
much of the controversy surrounding mask   mandates and stay-at-home orders was provoked 
by the disconnect between what we could reliably   measure and the reality of the pandemic on the 
ground. public health officials were constantly   on the lookout for more indicators that could help 
inform decisions and manage the spread of disease. one of these measures didn't really show up 
in the online data dashboards, but it was   and continues to be, used as a broad 
measure of infection rates in cities.   it's a topic that combines public health, 
epidemiology, and infrastructure that didn't   get much coverage in the news. and there are 
both some interesting privacy implications   and some really fascinating applications on 
the horizon. i'm grady and this is practical   engineering. in today's episode, we're talking 
about wastewater surveillance for public health. this video is sponsored by brilliant,   the best way to learn math and science 
through problem solving. more on them later. if you are unfamiliar with the inner workings of 
a modern municipal wastewater collection system,   boy do i have the playlist for you. but, if you 
don't want to watch 5 of my other videos before   you watch this one, i can give you a one-sentence 
rundown: wastewater flows in sewers, primarily   via gravity, combining and concentrating as it 
continues to a treatment plant where a number   of processes are used to rid it of concomitant 
contaminants so it can be reused or discharged   back into the environment. just like a watershed 
is the area of land that drains to a specific part   of a river or stream, a "sewershed'' isn't an 
outhouse but an area of a city that drains to a   specific wastewater treatment plant. the largest 
sewersheds can include hundreds of thousands, or   even millions of people, all of whose waste flows 
to a single facility designed to clean it up. wastewater treatment plants regularly collect 
samples of incoming sewage to characterize   various constituents and their strengths. after 
all, you have to know what's in the wastewater   to track whether or not it's been sufficiently 
removed at the other end of the plant. in the   early days of sewage treatment, sampling consisted 
only of measuring the basic contaminants such as   nutrients and suspended solids. but, as our 
testing capabilities increased, it slowly   became easier and less expensive to measure other 
impurities, sometimes known as contaminants of   emerging concern. these included pharmaceuticals, 
pesticides, personal care products, and even   illicit drugs. it didn't take too long to realize 
that tracking these contaminants was not only a   tool for wastewater treatment but also a source 
of information about the community within the   sewershed, the gathering of which is a notoriously 
difficult challenge in the field of public health. rather than coordinating expensive and arduous 
survey campaigns where many people aren't always   truthful anyway or going through the hoops 
of privacy laws to gather information from   healthcare providers, we can just take a sample 
of sludge from the bottom of a clarifier, send   it off to a lab, and roughly characterize in hours 
or days, the dietary habits, pharmaceutical use,   and even cocaine consumption of a specific 
population of people. if you're a public   health researcher or public official, that is 
a remarkable capability. to quote one of the   research papers i read, "wastewater is a treasure 
trove of biological and chemical information." think about all the stuff that gets washed down 
the drain and all the things you consume that   might create unique metabolites that find their 
way out the other side of your excretory system.   although wastewater surveillance is a relatively 
new field of study, we're already able to measure   licit and illicit drugs, cleaning and personal 
care products, and even markers of stress,   mental health, and diet. that's a lot of useful 
information that can be used to monitor public   health, but one particular wastewater constituent 
took center stage starting in early 2020. of   course, for decades, we've tracked pathogens in 
wastewater to make sure they aren't released into   the environment in treatment plant effluent, 
but the covid19 pandemic created a vacuum   of information on virus concentrations 
that had never been experienced before. we realized early in the pandemic that the 
sars-cov-2 virus is shed in the feces of most   infected people. even before widespread 
tests for the virus were available,   many public health agencies were sampling the 
wastewater in their communities as a way to   track the changes in infection rates over time. 
realizing the importance of coordinating all these   separate efforts, many countries created national 
tracking systems to standardize the collection   and reporting of virus concentrations 
in sewage. in the us, the cdc launched   the national wastewater surveillance system in 
september of 2020, complete with its own logo   and trademarked title. let me know if i should 
try to license this design for my merch store. individual communities can collect 
and test wastewater for sars-cov-2,   and then submit the data to the cdc 
for a process called normalization.   virus concentrations go up and down with 
infections, but they also go up and down with   dilution from non-sewage flows and changes 
in population (for example, in sewersheds   with large event venues or seasonal tourism). 
normalization helps correct for these factors   so that comparisons of virus loads between 
and among communities is more meaningful. there are some serious benefits from tracking 
covid-19 infections using wastewater surveillance.   it's a non-intrusive way to monitor health 
that's relatively impartial to differences   in access to healthcare or even whether 
infections are symptomatic or not. next,   it is orders of magnitude less expensive than 
testing individuals. nearly 80% of us households   are served by a municipal wastewater collection 
system, so you can get a much more comprehensive   picture of a population for just the cost of a 
laboratory test. it can also provide an earlier   indicator of changes in community-wide infection 
rates. individual tests can have delays and miss   asymptomatic infections, and hospitalization 
counts come well after the onset of infection,   so wastewater surveillance can provide the first 
clue of a covid-19 spike, sometimes by several   days. finally, now that vaccination programs 
are widespread and there is significantly   less testing being carried out, wastewater 
surveillance is a great tool to keep an eye   out for a resurgence in covid-19 infections, and 
it can even be used to monitor for new variants. of course, wastewater surveillance has some 
limitations too, the biggest one being accuracy.   the science is still relatively new, and there 
are lots of confounding variables to keep in mind.   in addition to changes in dilution from 
other wastewater flows and sewershed   population mentioned before, the quantity 
of viruses shed varies significantly between   individuals and even over the course of any one 
infection. right now, wastewater surveillance   just isn't accurate enough to provide a count of 
infected individuals within a population, so it's   mostly useful in tracking whether infections are 
increasing or decreasing and by what magnitude. there are also some ethical considerations to keep 
in mind. that term "surveillance" should at least   prick up your ears a little bit. monitoring the 
constituents in wastewater at the treatment plant   averages the conditions for a large population, 
but what if samples were taken from a lift station   that serves a single apartment complex, school, or 
office building? what if a sample was taken from   a manhole on the street right outside your house? 
could the police department use the data to deploy   more officers to neighborhoods where illicit drugs 
are found in the sewage? could a city or utility   provider sell wastewater data to private companies 
for use in research or advertising? that's a lot   of hypotheticals, but i wouldn't be surprised 
to see a black mirror episode where some tech   company provides free trash and sewer service just 
to collect and sell the data from each household.   if you wanted to open a new coffee shop, how much 
would you pay to learn which parts of town have   the highest concentrations of caffeine in the 
sewage? maybe it would be called brown mirror. the truth is that public health professionals 
have put a tremendous amount of thought   into the ethics and privacy 
concerns of wastewater surveillance,   but (as with any new field of science), there 
are still a lot of questions to be answered.   one of those questions is, "what comes next in 
this burgeoning field of wastewater surveillance,"   where public health researchers have 
access to a literal stream of data.   there are many measures of public health that can 
be valuable to policy makers and health officials,   including stress levels, changes in mental health, 
and the prevalence of antimicrobial-resistant   bacteria (one of the greatest human health 
challenges of our time). of course, all the   work that went into standardizing and building out 
capabilities of tracking infections will certainly   give us a leg up on resurgences of covid-19 or any 
future new virus, heaven forbid. my weather report   already has a lot more information than it did 
20 years ago, including pollen counts of various   allergy-inducing tree species, air pollution 
levels, and uv-ray strength. we might soon   see infection rates of the various diseases 
that spread through community populations   to help individuals, planners, and public 
officials make better-informed decisions about our   health. sewers were one of the earliest and most 
impactful advents of public health in urban areas,   and it's exciting that we're still 
finding new ways to use them to that end. wastewater surveillance requires a whole bunch 
of technical fields, combining engineering,   public health, and epidemiology. i think one 
of the easiest shortcuts to success is finding   opportunities to mix and match areas of expertise 
like this. in niches, there are riches, as they   say. but once you're out of school, it's much 
harder to gain technical knowledge in different   industries. that's why i'm thankful for brilliant, 
the sponsor of today's video, for providing   interactive courses in topics that interest me, 
like this one about illicit drugs in wastewater.   sound familiar? my videos give a thousand foot 
overview of many parts of engineering, but maybe   you're watching one of my videos and thinking, 
"this is for me. this is what i'm interested in."   brilliant gives you the ability to dive into 
math and science topics so you can really learn   them and get ahead in your studies or your 
career. the website is beautifully designed,   and they've put a ton of effort into finding the 
best ways to help you gain technical knowledge   and skills. learn to think like a scientist, 
engineer, or epidemiologist completely free at   brilliant.org/practicalengineering. you don't pay 
anything to sign up, and the first 200 people that   use the link will get 20% off an annual premium 
subscription. again, it's completely free to sign   up. that link is in the description. thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think.