- this is a professional bounty hunter, and if he successfully hunts me down, he gets $100,000. he has until midnight to
steal this backpack from me, and all i gave them was a knife. see ya! - [chris] oh, what do you mean? - [karl] oh, we're going this way here - where'd he go? - later, nerds!
- there we go. all right. - we're out, we're out, let's go! - and now we have a knife. - this is going to be
the craziest chase ever. i have a helicopter
lined up, a dozen cars, i have everything. he is not hunting me down. - you in? - we're in. - all right, here we go.
- [chris] yeah! - honestly, guys, we got this in the bag. i've caught way scarier people. - wait, is that them? - [bounty hunter] yeah. - [speaker] we're also on the way. - way we gotta go faster, they're
literally right behind us. - go, go, go. there he is, there he is! go, go, go, go! - go, go, go. - the boys know i'm driving this car, so the first thing we're do is go to the closest dealership
and buy a new car. - all right guys, good news.
i put a tracker on his phone. we know exactly where he is
and we can follow him now. - let's go, let's go. (group excitedly cheers) - let's get this a hundred grand! - [tariq] i can't believe
we're about to buy a new car. - i called them ahead of time. um, you have the car ready? - i do. - how much was it? - i think it was like 25. - $10,000, $10,000. just keep the change on that. all right, do you have the key? - yeah, absolutely. - all right. - thanks for shopping at coastal kia. - [bounty hunter] we're
getting right on em. it shows that they stopped
at a car dealership. - oh he's switching cars. - [jimmy] the boys got to the dealership and when they checked their gps they realized i already left. and the guy that sold me
the car started to talk. - now, what car is he driving? - it's a kia soul. - no one buys kia souls. don't even. - all right. i'm calling jimmy. - what up guys?
- did you buy a new car? - well, i mean, yeah, of course i did. - i'm ashamed of you, if you
actually bought a kia soul - ugh, looks like we gotta
ditch this car as well. - [karl] what are you
doing in the slow lane? it's a hundred thousand dollars. - it's unbelievable seeing that amount of money in the backpack. i gotta go get it. - this is probably one
of the weirdest things i've ever done. this warehouse is in the middle of nowhere and i had a vault installed in it. this is made of the same
stuff they use in banks. and now we seal ourself in. don't worry, just trust me. - [tariq] okay. - my plan is to stay in
this vault until midnight and save a hundred grand. - [tariq] wait really?
- maybe. (laughing) - [bounty hunter] it says
that he is right here. there's the kia soul! - [karl] wait where?
- [chris] wait there he is! - [karl] he's hiding in the warehouse! - i'll watch! - [chris] should we ask
people like in here? - why is there a safe here? - [chris] is he in the safe? - hey, bounty hunter! can you hear me? - yeah.
- yeah. - welcome to my safe. this is one of the most secure
vaults in the entire world. - what the heck?
- where did you get this? - i bought it from a bank. (laughing) you're probably wondering, 'how are you gonna get in so
you can win a hundred grand. i don't know, figure it out. - all right, if i know jimmy. (metal music starts) - nice! - i'm scared. - [jimmy] what the boys
didn't know was that there was a secret tunnel under the safe, and tariq and i escaped out
the back of the warehouse and ran for the u-haul truck i planted earlier that day. and just when we thought we were home free - did we leave the 100k in the safe? - [jimmy] oh god! can you go back? - yeah, i can go back. - [jimmy] yeah, go get
it! god speed, tariq! god speed! - is he still in there? - i don't know. he hasn't said anything. - check the back. - oh, there's a way out. - we gotta get around the back. come on! - jimmy, promise me to
never lose 100k ever again. that was so scary. - [jimmy] and now we're off
to the local movie theater, i wonder if they've caught on yet. - wait, did he get out
through here, at the bottom? - that's how he got out. - where'd he go? - he went out through that gate. - if we go through this way,
we can open up the safe. - guys, get in here! - he left the computer. let's see what it played. (computer audio starts) - [jimmy] cause, um,
you're a bunch of nerds, and nerds aren't gonna catch me. - was he ever here?! (x-files intro music plays) - by now they had to have caught on that we're no longer in the vault. honestly, they have to be pretty close. so, tariq hurry up! - [bounty hunter] guys,
we're wasting time. that tracker says that he's left. - hey, jimmy! - that seemed like a nice
speaker, but let's go! - wait, he used a different car? - go, go, go, go.
(tire squealing) - [tariq] that's the
movie theater right there. - [jimmy] get out the way grandma, i got a bounty hunter on me! - [tariq] all right, park
right here, park right here. - we're now at the movie theater, come on! and we don't need masks because we've rented the entire place. read the name of that, what does that say? here, zoom in on that. - [tariq] observation, oh! - [jimmy] go, go, go, go, go! - [tariq] was that them? (bell dings) - tariq, look back here. there's a secret door! all right, and now we are sealed off. - this is ridiculous. have you ever had to chase
after somebody this much? - just the other day, man,
we were running, jumping over fences, chasing a guy, but we got him just like we're gonna get jimmy. it looks like he might be
right where the u-haul is. it says that he's in the u-haul. - [karl] is he in the u-haul? - any luck in the back? - i'm gonna try to break the locks open. this is awkward, if it's not our truck. - yeah, there's just a lot of chicken. it's so hot in here. - all right guys, the u-haul's and no-go. real quick, before we go in there, let's check the tracker and
just see where he is at. - it still says we're right on top of him. - come on. - nothing! where did he go? - did you hear that? - oh, god. - dude, how does he keep disappearing right from underneath us? - carl smells. - wait, what? - this one's like lighting up! - wait, something's playing. - wait, this looks like
buried alive, right? oh no, this is,
- this is the island video! - this is him leaving the island! - oh yeah, i'm on this video. - no, no! - that's so embarrassing!
- this is stupid! - check roof? guys, come here. - [bounty hunter] the
tracker still says he's here. - they just checked this room, and since i wasn't in this room, they now think i'm on the roof. but what they didn't think of is instead of being above it, i'm below it. - he rented out a whole movie theater just to hide on the roof? - this man's insane. - i need this money, let's go, hurry up! - i'm coming! - jimmy! - i have access to the security cameras of the movie theater on my phone. i can see that they're currently upstairs. so now's our time to go. - all right, i gotcha. - i think he got us again. - hey look, we got a
great bird's eye view. let's see what we can see. - that camera looks suspicious. - let's go take a look at it. but then i think we
should get back inside. he's definitely watching us. that cord leads us back down. guys we gotta focus,
the tracker is moving. - right over here's an exit door. and according to the
cameras they're on the roof. earlier today, i called
the fire department and they disconnected this fire alarm. so you know what that means. (clicks) let's go! (fire alarm sounds) - shoot, we gotta go. - we gotta get back to the car. - where the fire alarm's coming from? - the fire's coming! - yo, that was perfect timing! that wasn't insane. i bet they're freaking out right now. according to the security
cams currently running down the stairs. so we do have
a decent head start on them. but no matter what we need to be fast 'cause all it takes is one slip up and i lose a hundred thousand dollars. and if you thought what we just did in the movie theater was cool, let's just say that
was only the beginning. - go, go, go, go! - dude. it's personal for me now. i want you to win. he did that island stunt, come on. - turn the ac on! it's hot! - i don't think he knows
how the earth works. - we decided to get in
the truck, it's hot. - [bounty hunter] welcome
back, we got the ac pumping. we're right on him, we're within a mile. - it's personal. - we are now going into a
ginormous field and as you can see i have a ride waiting;
our getaway vehicle. i missed. so that bar is stopping them from driving their car back here. and they're not gonna be
able to keep up with me. - [bounty hunter] looks
like there's a car out there that got ditched. the doors are open and everything. - i'm calling chris.
are you here? - we're pulling up right now. there's like a car with the doors open, i, of course you left the doors open. - so you see the car with the doors open. that was my car, correct? - how many kias did you buy?
- go, go, go, go, go, go! - your atv's over there! that was a lie, they don't have one! - [bounty hunter] ah, he was right there! - [jimmy] and now we book it! (fast paced music plays) - my legs, sir. - we're going the right way. - do you have the 100k? (grunts)
- now we left the car. this is the key to it. you see the key to the atv? bye! - [tariq] oh, it's gone. - the reason we had to ditch the atv is cause of these train tracks.
our next trap is over here. we're out of the woods. they're right on our tail. - yeah, yeah. he definitely
crossed the train tracks. - [jimmy] we gotta go
across this big field. - [tariq] you're joking. - [jimmy] the sun was
beating down on me and tariq. it was so hot! we passed by some people
and i convinced this guy to sell me his hat for $10,000 so i could cool off. pretty good deal if you ask me. as you guys can see, we
have a helicopter here okay? we also have a bunch of porta-potties. and you might be wondering
why do we have a helicopter and a bunch of porta-potties? it's a diversion! they're gonna be expecting me to be inside one of these porta-potties. but what they don't know, behind that bush is actually another car. i hid this bad boy last night. - all right we're right on his tail. gps has got him, we're about to catch him. we just gotta get through this field. - it's almost like this is your job, dude. how are you not tired? - oh, i'm exhausted, but
that reward is worth it. does anyone see him? - i don't see him. - i'm gonna give the pilot
the signal to take off. - oh my god, there's a helicopter. (helicopter engine revs) - he's in the porta-potty! what? - [chris] wait, he's in the porta-potty! let's go. (intense music plays) - [jimmy] they're gonna think
i'm in this porta-potty. look at that helicopter! it's lifting up the porta-potty! - [bounty hunter] he's gotta
be in that porta potty. (phone ringing) - karl! - hello? jimmy? - oh, whoa, whoa! karl i'm in the porta-potty, help! - you're in the freaking
porta-potty in the helicopter? - isn't that kind of unsafe? - i just hung up, so he thinks
something's going wrong. - he just hung up. - oh no! - do they actually think
i'm in the porta-potty? - [tariq] probably, honestly. - they should be able to tell
i'm just chilling in a car hidden in the woods. - [bounty hunter] the
tracker says he's still here. doesn't have him moving. - it's your call. - i think he's still
in those porta-potties. we gotta check all the porta-potties. what is that? - that's a mustang. is that jimmy? - ah, later nerds! - [bounty hunter] oh, that's jimmy. - [karl] what? there he goes. - oh my gosh. yo, that was so close. chris almost had us! - we've gotta be more stealthy. we've gotta use the woods. we've gotta blend in with
what we got around us or he is gonna get away again. - [jimmy] we've been in
a safe, a movie theater, a random field with a
helicopter and porta-potties; but this next location isn't as weird. we're going to a mansion. not my mansion. i rented it. i don't have
a mansion 'cause i spend tens of millions of dollars
filming these videos. and here's the mansion we rented. follow me, tariq. and i know for a fact, the
boys are way behind us. we left them in the middle
of a cornfield with no car. me and tariq are gonna rest
here real quick, recharge. we have security cameras
hooked up everywhere and we can see exactly when they pull in. - [bounty hunter] all right,
as we get closer, guys. we're not gonna park right
where the last points were. we're gonna park a little
further away and try to sneak in. - all right, that sounds stealthy. - all right guys, take a look. if we look at this, it's
showing that he went to one of these three corner houses. yeah, i got it.
- you do? - i can see him, yeah. yeah. do you see the, you
can kind of see the end of the mustang right there,
with the boat in the driveway. - literally all i'm doing is just staring at these security cams. the second i see them i'm booking it for the boat. - [chris] oh my god. this is like a palace! - oh, they're coming, they're
coming! they're running. go, go, go tariq, go, go,
go, go! oh god. oh god. they're running so fast. - is that him? there he is.
he's on the dock. - [karl] come on! - hold up, hold up. - he's right there! - they're not holding up. - [chris] oh my god. - get us outta here! - [tariq] let's let, let let's go! - [karl] what are we gonna do? - [chris] they got another boat? - [jimmy] you thought you
had us! my hundred grand! these things just keep
getting closer and closer. i was like, wait, wait. and they didn't wait. - we're gonna take the truck. we're gonna try and parallel them. we'll take whatever road
parallels them on the water. - okay. - the plane is we go to the
dock all the way down there. then i buy a car off of
someone who's waiting for me. - [tariq] wait, you're
gonna buy another car? - yes. and then we go back
to the abandoned hospital from the tag video where i have hundreds of mannequins set up and i'm gonna hide amongst them. and then after that, we're gonna go to a hotel
that i rented every room. - good news guys. even though he left on the boat the gps is still tracking him. so i've got a good point on him still. we're about to be right on top of him. he's right under this bridge
that we're about to go over. - what do we do when
we get over top of him? - we're gonna jump off
the bridge and go get him. - we traveled all down
the intercoastal waterway and we're at another dock. we gotta be inconspicuous because the boys could be here waiting. i don't know where they are. you're the guy i talked to on the phone? - yeah. hey jimmy, how you doing? - we agreed to 20,000 on the phone. - uh huh. - here you go. have a good day man. - all right, thanks man. - it's showing that
he's directly under us. oh my god.
he is right there. he's right there. - [karl] he's driving the red car! - oh they there they,
they are. do you see them? they're right behind us. - [chris] chase him!
holy cow! - [chris] oh my god! - make sure the doors are locked. i bet you at a red light
they're gonna try to hop in. - go, go, go, go, go, go, go,
go, go, go, go, go, go, go! - [jimmy] oh, he's coming. - [karl] come on, come
on, come on, come on. it was chris. he hit our bumper! - [bounty hunter] come on, come on! - i thought you were leaving me! - what's up. - we're gonna get you. - i can't hear you. - i feel like he's reaching
his end point here. - tariq, it's time we had a serious talk. - what's up? - you know, i consider you a brother - of course. - which is why i need to sacrifice you. - wait what? - the second we pull in and
i throw the car in park, - okay
- i need you to get out and i need you to go
deck the bounty hunter. i'm talking college, d1
lineman, just sack him. - you see how big that guy is? - [jimmy] we're pulling into the hospital. tariq, this is your time to shine. all right, get out. - [bounty hunter] go, go, go, go, go, go. - [tariq] go jimmy, go! - that's what i told you. - aw, god dang it!
no, no! - [bounty hunter] oh he's running! (screaming) - [jimmy] i wanna play this
moment in slow-mo for you. as you can see, chris hugged me. what do you do when one
of your best friends is just hugging you for dear life? i didn't wanna hurt him. so i had no choice, but to
just let him bear hug me and then let the bounty hunter catch up and steal the money from me! (kazoo blowing) (cash register opening) - yes, we did it!
- [bounty hunter] yes! hey, great tackle! - yes!
- i did what you said! you said we should tackle
him and i tackled him. - that was perfect. - congratulations on the hundred grand. (cash register opening) - thank you thank you so much! - i'm a little salty,
but at the end of the day you won it fair and square. i wanted to show you guys
the mannequins in here. we also rented an entire hotel but they beat us before we could get to. - i got a young child at home and this money sets him up. this is his college fund this changes my life. thank you so much. (exploding) (exit song) (exploding)