- "broke vs pro" is back. ken and i are going head to
head building gaming setups, where ken has a very limited broke budget, and i have an unlimited pro budget, to see exactly how important
the gear is or the gamer. - we're looking at gaming accessories, to see if they really make the gamer, or if the gamer makes the gamer. - (laughs) it's on, boy.
(clapping hands) welcome, my friends! it is time to build the
"broke vs pro" setups. now, to make this as fair as possible, we're both using identically
specced powerspec gaming pcs, with a ryzen 5 5600x, ew, and a rtx 3060. (austin retching) mid-range components because,
i guess, something something, same system, something, something, mid-range, something,
something. good comparison. - it's all about the peripherals here, so. - no, it's all about the money you spend, because as we all know, money equals good, and broke equals not good. as a famous poet once said,
"dollar, dollar bills, y'all." (hands smacking) well, i can only do that once.
(hand smacking) - yeah, yeah, do it once. i get to make it rain over here. - alright, let me show you what i got. so i'm gonna start with the monitor. (boxes thudding) i have- (austin laughing) - [austin] what is it?
- the gawfolk. - what? say it one more time. - the gawfolk. - [austin] (laughs) okay. - so for 100 bucks, you're
getting 144 hertz, 1080p. - oh, excuse me? you get 144 hertz monitor for $100? - yeah, can you believe the
value that you can get nowadays? - what the? you got a damn displayport
cable in your $100 monitor? - yeah, buddy. - i, blessed with the budget of a pro, have gotten a monitor fit for a king. this, my friends, is the lg ultragear 45, quite possibly the greatest gaming monitor ever made by human hands. - so my mouse is the
tecknet cordless mouse. the plastic ain't great. it's very glossy. that's gonna scratch and
get grimy at some point, but for, that's really,
oh, i mean, at 11 bucks, i can't really complain. - it just so happens that
i also have a white mouse, except this one is the deathadder. this is specifically the v3 pro. check this out. check this out. feel how slippery and
flexible that cable is. (ken laughing) (feet thudding) oh! you know what? that actually was not bad. you probably just broke the
mic, but that was not bad. - only reason why i jumped over that thing is because that's probably the most action that cable's gonna see today. - look at this. - [ken] right now? right now? (mouse sliding) - look how speed my flex is. that's like- - [ken] the only thing speedy is- - [austin] it's like nothing- - [ken] the amount of scratches
on our table right now. - you probably have a keyboard
underneath there, right? - [ken] i do!
- or were you too poor to afford a keyboard? - [ken] i do have a-
no, no, no. - [austin] did you have
to go dumpster diving at circuit city again? - i splurged on my keyboard. - magegee? you have a magegee? - it's a magegee! - oh! - [ken] it's back! we have another one. (keys clicking) - how did you build something
so good for, i mean- (clears throat) sorry, one more time. take two. (keys clicking) wow! huh! who would want a m- (sighs) i got nothing on it. - i'm telling you, you don't have to spend a lot of money to get good accessories. it's just you have to be smart about how you spend your money. - if you saw, we did a
video comparing a built versus bought gaming keyboard. well, that was a little
bit of r&d for this video, and so i have decided
to follow my own advice and buy a nuphy keyboard. - [ken] oh my god! - [austin] this is the halo65, which i will say, is a terrific keyboard. sounds great, pre-lubed, pre-stabilized, pre-keyed, pre-activated,
pre-painted, pre-gamed. - [ken] premium. - premium, and i'm very excited
to show you how great it is, and it's also got a mascot! - [ken] oh my god! she's adorable. (keys clicking) yeah. (keys clicking) though, though-
- so we can pretty much- (keys clicking) - [ken] well, actually, for
gaming, yeah, the linears. those are pretty light. they sound pretty good. wait, it's, wait, stabs. (keyboard tapping) oh! austin, do you have a controller? - oh, (flutters lips)
do i have a controller? (austin laughs)
(ken laughs) you know what's pro? rog, baby, the raikiri pro. it says the word pro, so i bought it. - you never bought anything a day- these are all things we've
done videos on before. you literally just scavenged
these from our storeroom. - look at that. look at that. a little bit of clear, transparent action. listen to this. listen to this. (controller tapping) - [ken] wow, it's a controller! - what do you got then? where's your cool controller? - i got the voyee.
(box thudding) oh, look! oh, got some rgb. and it's got programmable
buttons on the back. so i got myself one of my favorite iems. - [austin] what?
- in-ear headphones. the kz zsts. - [austin] wait, that's not- does that say the word
gaming on it anywhere? - it doesn't need to be gaming! - [austin] is it gaming certified? - i can plug it in to the
sound jack, and it'll work. - does it work with a discord? - [ken] yes! - the discord is very important. - yes, well, i can just
type to my friends. you know, i won't have a microphone. - well, lucky for you, i have no friends. i'm a big believer of the
mentality, "go big or go home." (mouth smacking) so- (joanna laughing) i got the biggest sound bar, that i could realistically
fit on the desk. - [ken] oh, those are not headphones. wait, you can't talk on discord! oh yeah, he doesn't have friends. - it's fine, because, is that all you got? are you done with it all?
- [ken] yeah, i'm done. - ah, okay, cool. alright, well. the good thing is with
a professional budget, i was not limited with the constraints of only 17 items or whatever ken's got. no, no, no, no, no. so in true "broke vs pro" fashion. ken, did you buy a chair? - [ken] no, i did not. - guess what? you get a chair (smacking sound effect). i gotta stop saying that. (ken laughing) - [ken] jesus christ. - okay, uh. i got myself a big razer chair. what's it called? i don't know, i'm a professional. i just had my assistant order it. (chair arms clacking) woo! - [ken] okay, don't break it. this needs to go back in
our lobby when we're done. - i can also, i can do this thing. and now, i'm just gonna fall off my chair. but i caught it, and i didn't lose eye contact with the
camera, so we're good. we're good, baby, we're good. (laughs) (beeping) i've got a big budget and
i'm not afraid to use it. - i think he's gonna cheat. he's gonna find a way to
break the system somehow. (awkward music) - so don't tell ken, but i have an idea. and while this is clearly not cheating, i wanna make sure that i
have the optimal ability to surprise him with the buttkicker. i tried a buttkicker before, i think i just used it in micro center. so this is the secret sauce that makes the buttkicking happen. wow! that thing is heavy. the good thing is it does
actually come with the amp, which wow, that's quite the amplifier. oh hey! you know what, though? shoutout, buttkicker. usb type c. alright. so the way this works, is that i plug this into the computer via usb, and then i assume it
takes it almost as like a subwoofer or something,
i'm not entirely sure. but basically, it takes the audio, and it will then amp it up,
run it through the transducer, and kick whoever's butt is in this seat, to give you a much more realistic
(drill sound) experience. if i put a strip of tape on here and maybe a little bit more
on this side, would he notice? that, no, that is actually almost 50%. it's 60, 40. (upbeat music) (ken and austin laughing) wow, boy. there's uh- alright, come on in! welcome to "broke vs pro!" - what the stupid sh- oh, come on. - [austin] so as you can see. - [matt] wait, wait,
wait, wait. what is it? - the pro setup is- - no! - i'm gonna set up some icons
out of here, out of your hair. (ken laughing) - okay, i think that's
offensive, actually. - no! no, look at- - that's a technical foul. - [austin] hey! - [ken] no- - automatic point deducted from you. i'm supposed to be judging
you guys, not this- i feel roasted already. what is your background? - wait! but i got more. - mine's more wholesome than this. - [matt] eh, hey, hey! ken wins, automatic, doesn't matter. - great.
- [austin] was it nibbler? - yeah. so i'm gonna judge their setups, i'm gonna see them, how
they perform in games, and how it actually performs in real life, and i'm gonna judge and
i'm gonna pick a winner. but it's gonna be ken, because nibbler. - i, we just started! - you decided to start by
insulting me on a personal level. - i'm sorry that your
face insults yourself. - you pick a photo that makes
me look like ps2 hagrid. you're a wizard, harry. (austin and ken laughing) - [hagrid] i want to hear
all about your first day. (austin laughing) - alright. show me your set up. - alright.
- show me your set up. - come on over, my good friend. would you like to take a seat? - yeah. - take a seat in this very
comfortable razer gaming chair. behold the beauty of the lg ultragear 45, a 240 hertz curved oled gaming monitor, paired with a lovely keyboard. would you like to give it a try? - is this a nuphy? - [austin] this is the halo.
- [matt] halo? - [austin] this is the 65, specifically. (keys clicking) - i use mechanical keyboards now. (keys clicking) - you are a mechanical keyboard boy. okay, how about that mouse? feel how professional that razer mouse is. - [matt] oh, it's grippage
in case i get sweaty. - exactly! exactly.
- got a good- - in case is a generous term, but yes. - it- (austin laughing) what did i do to deserve this today? - sorry, i just, you know what? - okay. - i'm just in a little bit of a mood. and you also have the raikiri pro. - [matt] you know i'm a fan of this. - it says "pro", which is why i chose it. um, but- - you sure it wasn't just
because it was on our shelf? - nope. it's not. um, but. here is that (french
accent) piece de resistance. (sea shanty playing) hold on to your butt. (sea shanty playing) so you've got yourself- - so we've got some vizio 2.1? - no! so it's actually technically 5.1. - [matt] 5.1 - so there's a sub down here. - wait, wait. so these are supposed to be the rear? - rear channels. - well. (ken laughing) if you stay tuned. the setup has not been fully deployed yet. - what? - there's a couple extra layers. - if you're not fully deploying it for me while i'm actively judging you, when are you gonna fully deploy this? oh. what was- - [ken] what's that buzzing? some interference. - interesting. (computer buzzing) - [ken] oh. - engine here. - i think joanna's just got a microphone that's getting right next to it. (austin laughing) really unprofessional
that you would do that. we gotta have a chat about- - [joanna] okay, sorry. let me just- - [matt] yeah. (gamers laughing) - [joanna] this is how we're
doing the rest of the video. - come back! okay. - alright. so my issue with this monitor- - there's no issue. - is it's so big. you can't really just like move your eyes. - well, here's the thing. - you have to move your head. alright, look, ken. let me see yours. first thing i notice is the
complete lack of a chair. - [ken] yes. um, that was
not one of the criteria. austin was just like "i
have a lot of money", and he bought himself a chair. - well, i've been the
broke player many times, and i did not get a chair this
time, so it only seemed fair. - so i've commandeered both of
our pcs to put up my monitor. - no idea mouse. - yep. - magegee! magegee! - [ken] yeah, it's back. - [matt] got a magegee! - [ken] it's back. - okay. (keys clicking) oh. oh. (keys clicking) feels like a bag of skeleton bones. (austin laughing) um, the mouse is not bad. it's a little glossy for me. like, i don't like the finish of it. - yeah, keep in mind, beggars
can't be choosers here. - no, you know what this feels like? - what? - the um, good or bad in this one, the kfc xbox controller.
- [ken] the controller! - [matt] that's like greaseproof. - [austin] greaseproof? yeah! - [matt] yeah. that's what it feels like. - hey, hey. but real quick, real quick. i wanted to point this out, 'cause i almost forgot about this. - yeah. yeah. - [matt] 165 hertz? - [austin] 165! i thought it was 144? - [matt] okay. - and this is one of the cheapest monitors you can get on amazon. i won't disclose the price
yet, because (indistinct). - it is a gawfolk! - (stammering) it's a gawfolk. and then so for audio- - [matt] yeah. - 'cause i do not have the
setup that austin does, i have in-ear monitors. there are compromises all over, 'cause it's the broke set up. but i tried to pick the best
quality given the value. - so you guys are gonna
play two games here. - [austin] yep. - and it's basically gonna
be you know, point one, well let's face it, ken's gonna win those. and then- and then the tiebreaker,
i guess if there is one, is who i think's setup is
better for these games. - no. i'm gonna win. i'm gonna launch our first
game, which is forza horizon 5. go ahead, take the raikiri. we'll just turn a little
bit of audio up here, you know, like 50%. go on, just give it a try. - should i just drive stick all the time? am i just amazing at this? (car whizzing on game) - [ken] stick's not that hard to drive. - okay. - [ken] no, no, no. i'm saying that you should,
because the control's nice. (car whizzing on game) nah, engine's- - what are you doing down there, kiddo? there's a lot of- you just, okay, okay. - [ken] oh, you
disconnected his controller. - oops. uh. - i don't even need to go to europe, i'm just getting the full
experience right now. - (whispers) it's actually mexico. - okay, well i didn't know that, 'cause it wasn't tinted green. (gamers laughing) - but it worked so well before
we were doing the video. alright, so, one more time? (chair vibrating) - oh. oh. (romantic music) - if i had to hazard a
guess, judging by the fact that i was next to the chair
doing it's whole thing, i think he's got a buttkicker
underneath this goddamn chair, and he's trying to figure
out how to make it work. (chair whirring) - what, is that not the
sound of success and winning? - i will say, this doesn't feel good. (ken laughing) so like- (ken laughing) it's literally, it's vibrating. - matt, you've gotten a
little taste of my setup. - yep. - impeccably working. i'm about to go head to head with ken and deploy my real secret weapon. this was just a distraction. - oh. - a smokescreen. a pitfall, if you were. hey! watch where you're driving, buddy. - [matt] i've seen this
move in tokyo drift. - i know. (laughs) oh yeah, this is when you
pick up the girl, right? - [matt] yeah, is this when
austin hands you his number? - ken, i feel so bad for you. i'm gonna donate to the cause. - ey-o? - so. - oh-oh. okay. okay. - was that supposed to be the loud thing? - you know what? i forgot he had iems. - what's up? - you really can't hear anything, can you? - no. i can't. i can barely hear you
when you're next to me. - [matt] alright. - let's go!
- alright, so. - [matt] alright, so one identical - got a bad start on
this, but that's okay. - corvette has gone in front of the other identical corvette. austin is in the lead right
now, wait, i gotta do the- (announcer voice) austin is in the lead. today we're gonna be talking
with our announcer voice. i don't know what f1 talks
like, 'cause i don't watch f1. - more british. - (british accent) more british? - [matt] you generally wanna
stay in the white lines. - (laughs) let's go! (austin screaming and laughing) - [matt] what did i say
was? and then there we go. - hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. - [matt] whoa! whoa. - [ken] hey! - what! - what the hell was? oh, bad sportsmanship, dude. - no, no, no, no. - i pull the flag. - i was entitled, it's my corner. - that was some bad sportsmanship! - it was my corner. - oh my god. i cannot believe. i had the line, dude. you rammed me in. - well, you know what? beggars can't be choosers. and losers can't be winners, baby! round one to austin. - i think we need to do one more. - nope, i think it's time to go cs: go. next up, we've got cs: go. this is a game that is truly going to test the competitiveness of our setups. forza is great, but cs: go is where the real talent comes in. - even though i'm facing
bots, i wanna kill austin. (banging sound on game) oh god. - what was that? (gunfire) - oi! (gunfire) stupid bots. - sniped for the mp7, baby!
- oh, that's austin! - [matt] oh! - look at this amazing s- oh okay, you did kill me right back. - [matt] and then you- - actually, that's fine,
that's fine, that's fine. - [ken] did you just kill my bot? - [matt] alright, it's
off time, it's off time. - no. - wait, wait, wait, wait. - [austin] i've gone behind. - here's the thing. neither of them are in the lead right now. (austin laughing) two random bots are kicking
their ass right now. - i'm feeling good right now, baby. - [matt] ooh!
- i'm feeling good. - [ken] you feel good all you
want, but like, i'm still- (austin laughing) - again, he just spawns
behind me! like, what is this? - it's called skill, you
should try it someday. what, ken? did you just get the 331? what the hell? - that's what i'm telling you. - that's what i'm telling you! what do you mean? why are you surprised? you're not winning anything. (gunfire) oh, dammit. - i got ken? i got ken? did i get ken? - oh! bye, austin. (slamming keyboard) ooh ooh! that was sick! mm, mm, yeah. (gunfire)
ooh! dammit!
(austin laughing) - in the face! i've almost caught up to ken. - [matt] ooh. it is close.
- i just gained 50 points. - is he the 419? - [matt] yeah. so he's within 70 points of ken. at one point, ken had 124- - oh, but the game's over, i win. - oh! (ken laughing) - i can confirm that austin
killed ken way more times. and in the spirit of the game-
- because i'm blessed. i'm blessed with the setup. (kisses setup) - [matt] i gotta take that into account, because like, yeah you
can do good against bots, but he ain't a bot. - [austin] he ain't a bot. - so i gotta weigh that, however, the screen said ken won that. - yeah, i did. i did. - so he gets the victory. (austin sighs) so this is coming down,
we're tied one on one. it's gonna come down to, i guess what i think is the better setup. so let me go over what i like and what i don't like about this. alright. so i love the controller. this is the keyboard i personally
use, i'm a big fan of it. it's not crazy expensive,
i know that much. the mouse is, like, they all feel great. the monitor looks really good. i do think this monitor is
actually too physically large. i love the overclock mat. you know, i'm matt, i'm overclock matt. your buttkicker really kicked your butt. and i gotta ding you points on that one. - hey, look, man. we all have a butt
misfire from time to time. - this here is simple, it's effective. i will say, this keyboard
does not feel good to me, and nor does the mouse. they both kind of have this like, really glossy, slippery,
greasy feel to them. i'm really impressed with this monitor. at 165 hertz, so it is 1080, but that's fine for majority of gaming. now, i personally do not like to be tethered to the desk with iems. this is a really good,
effective system here. though, i would honestly get rid of this. i don't like this controller. it feels, the grips are
still super cheap plasticy. the buttons here, you can hear me accidentally clicking these. it's just, where i
naturally wanna hold this, there's a button, and i feel like i'd be accidentally hitting this all the time. not a fan of that. but, what i think's gonna
be my deciding factor is, how much did you pay for this setup? - so, overall, everything here is $177. - walk me through how much your stuff was. - [austin] would love to. - any one piece of your setup, - [austin] mhmm. - is the entirety of ken's. - you're almost correct on that. - so'0 bucks. (ken laughs) - 170. so this is basically the same price as ken's entire setup. - [matt] yep. - but again, look, i'm
not, this is a broke- - [matt] this is a damn
fine controller, like. - exactly. i got quality. - i know like, yeah.
this is gonna last me. - well, so, the monitor's 17. and then um- - so you can buy 17 of my
monitors for one of these. - uh, so uh, my grand total was uh, 2004 ford focus. (matt whispering) - wait a minute, wait a minute, wait. wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. wait. - [austin] what? - you're trying to pull a fast one on me. - i would never do such a thing, matt. - you're forgetting a
big part of your setup. - no i'm not. - did you not think,
that i wouldn't notice, that you snuck in
- wait, wait wait. - an $1800 tungsten cube. - no, no, no. - [ken] oh my god.
- in your setup. - no! i didn't put that there! - [ken] austin! - your honor. i didn't touch that. - just so you could have, "oh, let me flex my
$1800 cube on the setup". - this is, i've been set up. it's a sting operation. - [ken] what the hell? - i'm just gonna, of course, just get this out of the way real quick. 'cause this belongs on the set, 'cause this is not part
of my setup in any way. i don't know how it got there. my actual setup was a very
reasonable (mumbling). um, it's just a little, fine. - but here's what it comes down to. it didn't make austin a better gamer. and that's really what
this series is all about. - wait, wait, wait. but what
about the parts where i won? - it made you salty. - no, but the parts i- - you literally had to try and cheat, to get your speakers over here. - (laughs) and i could
barely hear them anyway. - his iems blocked out your entire cheat. so like, again, it's not
always the best options to go with the absolute cheapest. i think ken could have had a better setup, if he spent a little bit more money. which i know is very hard
when we're saying "broke", because, yeah, you wanna spend
the cheapest amount possible. but that mouse is probably
not gonna last forever. the keyboard's probably
not gonna last forever. whereas if you spend 20
bucks more, a little bit, you can get really good quality. now, on the other hand of the spectrum, you don't need a $1700 monitor. i agree that you built a pro setup. - [austin] thank you very much. - but where i have to
take away your pro title, it didn't work! i'm giving the victory to
ken, with the broke setup. (kazoo buzzing and people cheering) (ken claps)
as usual, ken wins. you lose. - you are the smartest person in the room. - i am the smartest person in the room. (laughs) please get this damn
screenshot off the thing. like, follow, subscribe. let us know what other "broke
vs pros" you want us to do. catch us in all of our other
channels over at overclock. and we'll catch you in the next one. - and (claps).