do you want to shuffle these brady? just 
so people are happy that they're not in a   pre-arranged order? 
- (brady: i'm sure people believe 
us but there we go i've shuffled them up a bit.) no i can't do that either, it's why i'm 
not attempting to do it on camera. right,   so we've got a randomly shuffled pack of
cards; i don't know the order they're in. and i'm- first of all i'm just going to memorise 
them; so i'm just going to deal them out and   then try and remember whether they're red/black 
and then we'll go for it. okay, let's go. okay, let's go for it. umm, black, black black, black, red, black black, black, black, red, red, whoops. black red red, black, red, black red black, black, red, black black, red, black, red, red, red, red, red.  ummm...red? red, red, red. black, black black? black, red, black. red, red, black, red, red, black, black, black, final four! red, black, red, red. yay! 
- (you happy with that?)
- i'm very happy with that.  (well done, very well done, amazing.)
- phew, genuine relief.
- (well done) i think quite a few people watching might have 
spotted what i was doing based on the gaps   i was leaving. so when i was reciting them in 
particular, i was like- i wasn't reciting them   at a consistent pace. so i'd maybe- i think i'd do 
kind of six and then i'd often think for a bit   and then i'd do the next six. so i think that 
was a little bit of a clue that i'm grouping   these cards in to six - so groups of six. and i'll 
just give you an example, so the first one - now   i've got to remember what it was! the first one was- the 
first six was black, and then black, and then black,   and then it was black again and then it was 
red and then it was black. so that was my first   group of six. what i'm doing is i'm taking the 
the second to the sixth of that group of six   and i am- if it's a black card i'm thinking 
about a 1 in my head, and if it's a red card   i'm thinking about a 0 in my head. and so 
actually what i'm doing is i'm turning that   set of five into binary. so this is- this is 
a binary number, a string of 1s and 0s, and   then i'm turning that binary number into base 10 
in my head. so in binary this represents one lot   of 1, zero lots of 2, and one lot of 4 and 
then i've got one lot of 8 and then i've got   one lot of 16. so this is 29, so this binary 
number represents 29. so i'm then remembering   29. so essentially i've condensed those five 
digits into this two-digit number. (what about that first number?)
- that's a good question; so this 
first one is in my head. sometimes i remember   black as a negative and red is a positive, and 
sometimes i just remember it as black or red.  so essentially i found that i was much quicker 
and much more fluent if i just dealt with five   digit binary numbers; as soon as i got to the sixth 
um sixth digit i was getting- i was like, was it 37?  was it 27? i was getting really confused. so 
i found it easier to think about that bit of   information just as it is, as like black or red. 
so for each of these groups it's either black or   red - and sometimes in my head i imagine the number 
as black or red. so literally this is black pen 29.   but then occasionally when i've been 
practicing i've been remembering it as minus 29 so   it changes. but this- just to be- just 
to be clear this isn't signed binary, right? so this   is literally just- this is the binary number and 
then this is just a separate bit of information.   so i had black 29, the next one i had 
was black 25, and then the next one..   - you're asking me! - was red 10. i 
think? and then the next one was black 22, and then the next one was black 0 which was 
really nice, that was quite a gift. and then the   next one was red, and it was 3 i think? and then 
the next one was black again; a lot of them were   black which was really helpful so i only had two reds 
here. and that was black 20 i think? and then it   was black 7. each of these are six and there's 
eight of them so that's 48 cards only, so the final   four i'm just remembering as what they are. there's 
only- like not many patterns you can have with four   cards and it was red, black, red, red. so i just in 
my head i remember that as, the second one is black.  so that's what i was remembering. so 
essentially eight 1 or 2 digit numbers,   a bunch of blacks and reds.
- (what's harder, the encoding or the decoding afterwards?)   the remember- and actually neither. so i guess there's 
three processes: the first process is encoding, so   turning it into the base 10 number; second process 
is just remembering it, and then decoding. encoding   and decoding i've just practiced lots and 
lots, i'm really quick at it, so that's not   too hard it's the remembering. it's- it's kind 
of trying to encode in one part of your brain   whilst at the same time not forgetting all 
of the numbers that have already come through,   and the patterns. so as i say, this was quite a 
nice one because - i'm not going to do my trick   down - but the fact that we've only got two reds and 
they had this kind of symmetry. so i see it like   this in my head, so i see i've got eight things 
to remember plus these little extra ones.    (zero, is that a black card and then all reds?)
- yeah, exactly. so that was a black card and then five   reds so that was just really nice. like i probably 
smiled when i dealt that out, so if you- if you   see on the- that was- yeah that was nice. and 
then also then in order to remember the numbers   often- there's not too many patterns in this, 
well this one, but often if there's a pattern   that helps me remember it. so the other day i was 
practicing and i had something like 14 and then   7, that's half. or another one i did the other 
day, i had 20 and then 3 and then 17; and 20   take 3 is 17. so if i can spot little patterns 
like that while i'm going along that really helps   me remember it. 
- (it almost feels like it'd 
be easier just to remember the 52 cards!)   i- yeah definitely not. like i think i think the key 
with this is that i'm condensing the information.   so base 10 is much more efficient than binary. 
so this is effectively binary, right, so black   red's are the same as binary. and so i'm condensing 
like six or five digits down to one or two digits.   if you have a brain for numbers and you're about 
to start university, well this could be your moment.   our episode sponsor, jane street, is running its 
academy of math and programming. it's a five-week   summer program for recent high school graduates, 
particularly those who've experienced barriers to   access and opportunity. it's happening in july and 
all the expenses are paid including accommodation,   travel, and they're throwing in a $5,000 scholarship to support future opportunities. if you're interested, or maybe you know someone who 
might be, check out the details on the jane street   website. all your questions will be answered there 
and i've also put a link in the video description.   our thanks to jane street 
for their support. ...i've shown people this trick before and people have said, why don't you use hexadecimal? because you can represent eight digits, eight bits, with 
just like two- two digits. but i'm just- i'm just   nowhere near as practiced in that so it would be 
so much more difficult for me to remember things.