- we're playing red dead redemption 2, a game that my good friend
ing has recommended. we met in austin, but she's
now in boston, cambridge, working on exoskeletons- - and robotic limbs. - and robotic limbs. which in the future, i
guess would be cyborgs. we started playing it a little bit ago and it's way better than i
imagined 'cause i thought it's- - well, the dialogue is great. - but just even the dynamics of horses. 'cause i thought it was just
gonna be grand theft auto on a horse, but there's
so much more to this game. - well right now, we're in story mode. if we played free play, we could find a random horse and train it. - yeah, but it's cool
that the horse gets tired. you have to take care of it. - yes, i did. and i hope the bastards- - and just the harsh conditions of snow as a start of the story
is incredible. anyway. - you ever ridden a horse?
- yeah. (both laughing) you're laughing because
there's a picture of me on the internet on a horse. okay, i'm not sure there's
gonna be a lot of shoot, is it wise to take off the gun? - i don't think we have a gun. (both laugh) i picked up where you left off. - no, why did i get off the horse? - okay, check your pockets. oh, you've got your binoculars that i know you have in your pocket, but the gun, i don't know. i don't know if you have any weapons. - what happened? what
happened to our weapon? - i don't know, but i
wasn't here for that. - all i did is played it
for like five more minutes and i shot the wolves that were attacking. - oh, the wolves? - with the wolves. - that's how you wasted all
of your ammo? with the wolves? - there was like five of them, it was difficult to shoot down. - how long did it take? you
said it took you five minutes. - no, it did. yeah, it was five minutes 'cause it was just one little chase, but it took me like three attempts 'cause i was trying to
get better at aiming (ing laughs) 'cause i kept killing the other guy. oh, it's a bit of a fight. - are they leaving? - seem to be. should we go get 'em? - looks like we're
about to go into combat. - anyway, i mentioned austin. do you remember how we
met? how long ago was this? - it was like a year
and a half ago, i think. - in the summer, right? - i came to visit some friends and that was at a coffee shop
and we ran into each other. - yeah. and then since then, then
when did you go to mit? that was recent, right? - very recent. that was in september. it's been fun. the winter
is very cold though. - this is your first cold place, right? - yeah, and i love the heat. like, the texas heat was great. 96 degrees, walking on the
trail. yeah, it's nice. - i love it. how do i pull out a gun? (both laugh)
- i don't know if you have a gun. go hold down b. oh, you have a gun. nice. - okay. so how do you do the, you know, like you can swap through
the different guns you have. how do you think you can flip through it? no. i don't need guns, i use fist, bro. (ing laughs) okay, but the revolver might be enough. - okay. approach our horse. i think it's more entertaining
when you play this. - because i'm so bad at it? - it's just so great to watch. - i mean, it's just an
incredibly gorgeous game. just like the snow, the sound of it. - i also put it on cinematic mode. - which does what? - the views of it, it's
not really first person. it's not as pleasant for playing the game, but it's pleasant for
watching someone else play. okay, is this not my horse? - just for the record. we're
both noobs at this game, but it's more fun this way. - yeah. okay, horse weapons. - i saw that you can skin animals. there's a lot of really good-
- rt to cycle. oh, there we go.
- yeah, there you go. i told you. how do you, how do you cycle?
- rt. - rt. cool. - okay. why do i need to go? why do i still need to do this? - i remember like it was yesterday, all the wolves i killed with that. - our needs right now are supplies. (both laugh)
- nice twirl. - everything else,
including colm, can wait. - okay. - there's enough- - this guy walks really slow. - to deal with as it is. now, come on. - i don't think these guys are in touch with their feminine side. - why don't you think that? - just everything they're doing
is like the most masculine- - their coats are pretty long. - that's true. - it's pretty feminine, kilt or a skirt. i guess a kilt isn't- - what do you think about kilts? - i think they're pretty awesome. (ing laughs)
i mean, it's pretty aggressive to buy one, but. - yeah, if you're not scottish. - just in general. - just sport kilt. - it's just like an aggressive move, but if you have one, rock it.
- just walk around boston. - [both] yeah.
- in a kilt. - like a giant coat and a kilt. i mean, i don't wear a skirt in the winter. - you think i can go to the gym in a kilt, just work out, just do curls. - that'd be kind of stinky.
(ing laughs) - will i get kicked out
from like planet fitness if i wore a kilt? - i mean, well, you have
to think about it this way. like, would i get kicked
out of planet fitness if i wore a skirt to the gym? probably. - i don't think they think of it that way. they'll just see me in a kilt.
it's like, "excuse me, sir. you're scaring"- - you're scaring everyone. - and you're making all kinds of sounds. - you would make sounds while you're wearing a kilt?
- yeah. (both laugh) - you have to make the sounds? - like william wallace. - maybe i should take the lead on this. - i'll paint my face blue,
whatever, the stripes. - like braveheart? - uh-huh.
- wow. wow. - it's cheesy as hell, but it's epic. it's a great speech. - is it? it's a good, like, monologue? - no, he does a speech
where they're the underdogs and they have to fight the british. and he basically says like, "we can run and keep our
lives or we can stand here and fight for our freedom." and the question is, you have
to imagine years from now when you're in your deathbed
and you're looking back, would you come back here
for just one more chance to fight instead of
fleeing? it's good speech. - you gotta be brave. - yeah, sometimes you have
to put your life on the line. - bravery is important. i was talking to my nephew
about this recently. so he plays, i think
it's called "minecraft", and there's zombies in the game. and he knows a way of like
escaping whatever conflict he's in so that he
doesn't have to face it. and i told him that in life,
it's really important to be brave because you can't always
run away from your problems. so i think bravery is super important. - what are they saying? - should i take the lead
or should i send the gang? - what do you mean,
you have those options? - i have those options. - oh, take the lead, send the gang. send the gang. leave from the back. (both laugh) - good luck. - all right. should we just? oh shoot, where are the people? oh, that's where. i didn't see the dot. this screen is humongous. - yeah, it's ridiculous. should i bring the thing closer? - no, it's good. oh shoot, i keep on getting shot. how do i hide? oh, this is getting real. hold on, how do i crouch again? - sometimes you have to
put, just like you said, you have to put your life on the line. (ing laughs) - it's worth it. it was
worth it at the end. - retry checkpoint, don't
restart the mission. - that's an a?
- a. - oh, you have to hold it. nice. - yeah, because restarting the mission, we're gonna go through
that whole walking thing. - so what is it? is it y,
no, to take out the gun? this is really hard. - i know. it's hard to like chat and do this. - yeah, you try it. - okay. oh. - oh shit.
- that was me. - that wasn't you. - that was me.
- yeah, that was you meaning it was animating your duck shot. - yeah, i did so good. nice. no, there's no one there. all right, where are the people? oh, nice. oh, where are the, who is it? - i don't think there's
anybody behind you. (both laugh) i think you-
- i can't see. - i think you're imagining things. - nice. oh no. but i figured it out now, okay. - what are we doing, dutch? - "what are we doing, dutch?"
(ing laughs) i'm, by the minute, becoming
more and more of a cowboy. - thank god, we're in texas. - where's this set? do you know? - i don't know. i could look it up. oh, my phone's charging
somewhere over there. - i don't go down that easy. - did you hear what he said? "i don't go down that easy,"
and you just shot him twice. (both laugh) - just to prove a point. sounds like you're clean-
- you need to eat. - oh, oh, oh.
- i need to eat. - wait. - yeah. all right, cool.
- hold on. - what am i eating? apples? - you need to- - i think that sounds- - how do i switch over? oh, i see. okay. - that thing. - lb to use. okay, did that help? - let me see. - i want to eat. oh shoot. - no, no, no, no, no, no. everything's fine. all right. i just keep dying. - oh. - what?
- i restarted the mission. yeah, because restarting the mission, we're gonna go through
that whole walking thing. (ing giggles) - that's good, gives us a chance to relive the incredible graphics
of this video game. - going faster. were you pressing a while you were on the horse? - yeah, but not enough. i haven't figured out
if you can just hold it or if you have to keep
pressing it. it's complicated. - i don't think i'm
controlling it anymore. - yeah. this is gorgeous. - yeah, it's really beautiful. - have you ridden horses? - yeah. i used to go to
a horseback riding camp. - you like it? - loved it. i like horses a lot. they're very gentle. they're kind of like, well, they're better than dogs in a way. like, they're more loyal
and they don't realize how large they are. - yeah. - and they're really just sweet. - and people you love will die. - i love horses. - some things i can forgive,
others i can forget. what he did to annabelle- - there's so many cliche
sayings in this, it's great. this is like a mix of "grand
theft auto" and "skyrim" because the nature scenes are beautiful. it's not always winter, right? - well. i think that, i remember a version where it was winter. - yeah.
- haven't played in a while. - see that smoke? - i'm sure the seasons change in the game. - they said it was near the
lake, so we must be close. - winter's brutal. like, it's crazy. - so you're not enjoying
like the craziness of it? at least a little bit? - i mean i think it's like it's bonding for the
people that live there. - 'cause they get to complain? - yeah, 'cause i get to
complain together, but- - and then you get to appreciate deeper when it's actually warmer out. - when it's like a different season. yeah. - yeah, when the seasons
change, like some- - it is beautiful when it snows. it was a weekend where it was like - 11 degrees or something. it's crazy. - you ever build a snowman? - once, but when i was younger. have you? - yeah, all the time. - all the time? - yeah. i used to really enjoy eating snow and then people would tell
me, "you shouldn't do that." and i would still do it. - why did you keep doing it? just super rebellion in your- - yeah.
- you couldn't live without- - it tastes good. - i see. it tastes good? - i don't know. - do you chew on ice too? - no, no. it's like, it's refreshing, but i think it's probably horrible for you because all kinds of stuff
could be in the snow. i don't think i was so
much concerned about my health or immune system when i was young. - probably made it stronger. - yeah, probably. because these days- - they're not eating enough snow. they don't know what it was like. - what's the scariest
thing you've ever done? - scariest? - skydiving. do you skydive? - i've gone skydiving. i think probably scuba diving 'cause i didn't take a class or anything and i was scuba diving and
we went under the water and there were stingrays and it was like this really weird feeling of
like, this may go very wrong, but i feel like the people
around me are very confident, so they'll take care of
me if something happens. - yeah, that was the same
thing for skydiving for me. - yeah. - have you ever killed a man? - no, have you? - yeah. i lost count.
(ing laughs) i'm really taking this game in. just the spirit of this game. - just killed many cowboys in my day. - if you had the opportunity
to live in this time for like a year, would you? - yeah, probably. - like a vacation, but the opposite- - could i come back-
- of a vacation? yeah, yeah, yeah. no, you have to stay
for a whole year though. - whole year, i would do it. - okay.
- yeah. my lab, they do this thing
where they go to africa and they help people and
you stay for a month, but it's like these
really harsh conditions. i think two of the girls
that recently went, they got really sick
while they were there. but you're helping these people who don't have access to these limbs. - yeah, probably also
helps you appreciate- - yeah, everything that
you have access to readily. - you guys are suspiciously
close together. - i know. we're like, "hey." (both laugh) - what are you thinking about, john? - alright, let's go. wait, wait, why isn't it letting me? all right. oh, that's what it was. i only had my fist. (gunshots firing) - o'driscolls! you're
dead, you sons of bitches! (gunshots firing) - shoot. oh shoot. - nice. - i really wanna get this guy. okay. all right, come on. obviously, we're not
very good at this game. oh. - it's kind of fun. we just keep- - we just keep dying in the
same, like in an eternal loop. - hey, how about this? - what? yeah, a restart checkpoint, okay? - hey.
(ing laughs) i'm the one that pointed that out. i clicked the restart mission by accident. - that's true. what do you think about, like, cyborgs? do you think that in 100 years, we'll all be partially robot? - yeah, i think we have
to merge with technology in order to like, in order to evolve with it because it's evolving so quickly. if we don't evolve with it, it's like we lose a step in evolution. - yeah. - like it's the logical next step. - including brain? - yeah. bcis and bmis are the future. - so you like the neuralink stuff? - love it. - love it. there's a lot of awesome
neuralink people here in austin. - are there? - they were saying they wanted to give me a
tour and meet them and stuff. i really wanna meet them. and the surgeon, i
talked to a few surgeons, they're just incredible people. i love it. - yeah. - and the cool thing about
neuralink is they have all these like different, how do i stop crouching? - i don't know. oh, i don't know. - that's fine, crouching is good. it's a good look. i feel
like you should be crouching- - you're definitely safer. - yeah, yeah, yeah. but you know, you look less gangster, but you know, it's fine. the cool thing is they
got like all kinds of, they got materials engineering people, they got electrical, robotics, obviously software engineering. they have like, they have to take care of the
animals, that's a whole thing. - yeah, that's tough. i mean, i deal with a lot of
animal stuff in our lab too, like with the rats. the rats are a lot nicer than the mice. - oh. - but i think they're
dealing with monkeys, right? - yeah. no, they're doing everything. they're doing mice too, i
think, with the monkeys. and they make them super happy. and pigs too. - oh, that's wonderful. - yeah. i think they have a factory opening, there's like an animal zoo you can rent. you can rent folks that like they'll bring a bunch of animals and you get to play with them. - that's so cute.
- it's a cool thing for a party. if you just order a bunch of animals, you get to pet them
like a goat and a bunny. - you're talking about petting zoos? - yeah. but the portable, like you can bring it to your party. - yeah, those exist. they usually come to
like children's parties. - yeah, it was awesome.
(ing laughs) - yeah, they're great. - i will forever be a child. do you see any bad guys? because- - no, but i hear someone shooting. - where? - i don't know.
- out there? - they're shooting at someone. - i feel like they're just shooting. - they're shooting into distance. - they're trying to look cool. they're shooting for the gram. i don't know. - it's like you going to the gun range. (ing laughs) - it's like me wearing
the kilt at the gym. - i think i might eat the protein
bar that's in your fridge. - it's like-
- [ing] can i just have a bite of it because i feel like
my blood sugar's really low. - okay. it's not that good. - [ing] is it? does this have sugar in it? - no, sadly not. - [ing] maybe i'll drink some of that, maybe it'll help me. hold on. - i killed the last of them. - [ing] the last of what,
of the powerade things? - no, no, the last guy. - [ing] you did?
- yeah, yeah, yeah. - [ing] okay. let me just see. - i think actually the ai
in this game's pretty shitty because it couldn't- - [ing] it didn't pick up? - they were just shooting around, they couldn't figure out what the enemy is and the enemy couldn't figure
out where the good guys are. "and kill without thought, you're in." - [ing] whoa.
(fridge door closes) why did you buy that one? - what do you mean? - [ing] that protein bar? - 'cause i went out yesterday
and it was past midnight and i wasn't sure where to get food. - and that's when you decided to eat? - yeah, i was ambitious. i got a different flavor
and it was pretty good. - oh. what are they shooting
at? oh, there you go. there you go. (gunshots firing) - am i still shooting at somebody? oh. - shit, there's a lot of them. - what do you think, arthur? should we hold ground here, or go at them? - advance or defend? - advance. - i think you should mount a horse. - not all men truly live. i should mount a horse? why? - i think it would be
more fun and quicker. - but you don't look as
cool. look how i'm walking. - no cover, not crouching anymore. - not crouching.
(ing laughs) yeah. you've made me angry. when
i get angry, i don't crouch. you ever play shooters,
like "call of duty"? - i'm not as into it. i
like when there's a story. - no. well, "call of duty," like, i think there's a story
mode. like, single player. - there is. there is. but it's more like, it's a lot of like
this, but not as scenic. - yeah. yeah. it's also a little bit more military, so if you're into that kind of thing. i don't know which direction
i'm being shot from. - it doesn't show you on the map? oh, i guess not. they're running away. - there, i took care of everything. - thank you.
(both laugh) what would i do without you? - i don't know. - search that building. - oh, i need to just chill
with the guys, i think. oh, we're going into different buildings. - all right men, quick! find
those detonators, explosives. - nice. - okay. - i like the word delegating duties here. that's great. - i mean, if there's anything
i love to do in a game, it is forage and gather. - that's great. - you can do all of the fighting. - i'm not good at fighting in this either. - we're learning. - this looks good. what do you think, bill? - i like the we in that,
it feels like a team. this is great. - come on. - i really thought this
game would be way worse. - think so, boss? - well, you didn't like
"zelda", so i think that's why. - yeah, we should mention we
played "zelda" for a little bit before and it was too, it's too fun. it's too adventure. it's too shallow. - you like the accents
in this game better? (ing laughs) - yeah, this game's gritty. it's like-
- yeah. - all right, let's get outta here. - it feels like a movie i'd wanna watch. - not a man down. - good work, fellers. - not bad. - do you think you were
a cowboy in a past life? what made you decide to live in texas?
- what guy would answer no to that?
(ing laughs) no, i was,
(both laugh) i was more of a carrot farmer. like some very insignificant vegetable. of course that was a, no, no, you know what? not a cowboy 'cause the cowboys are the good guys usually, right? - i think so. or i mean-
- i was a bank robber. - bank robber? - past life. - so you think that like being a criminal would be a lot of fun? - oh, of course he will. - yeah, i like the challenge of it. yeah. i don't like the murder, but sometimes you have
to do what you have to do to get the job done. - it's like a puzzle.
(ing laughs) - i'm just speaking like a cowboy with it. no. no, i think it actually
would be, in this context, super challenging to, without hurting anybody to steal money. but you're gonna hurt a lot of people- - it's also very stressful. - if you rob a bank in a
small town at that time, you're probably hurting a lot of people. - you think so? you think
you have to kill someone? - no, i mean like financially. - oh yeah. - that town is probably
dependent on the bank. although like it's a really
good show, "yellowstone." - oh, that's a great show. - it's a great show.
- i've seen it. - you've seen it?
- yeah. - good job.
- there's cowboys. (ing laughs) - it's more like a modern, i mean, it's, you know, without going into
cowboys sounding cliches, there's a certain kind
of ethic and value system you live under that i
think is in part admirable. - oh, i clicked the wrong thing. what happened? oh, we didn't get there in time. - oh. - sorry, we were chatting
too much, i got distracted. - yeah, whatever. it's just beautiful. i like kind of chilling and
walking around this world. does it make you sad that we'll have cyborgs and robots and ai? - no. i think if we merge with it, we have a really
optimistic looking future. - but you're gonna lose some of the, this kind of cowboy humanness, you know? - well, i think that your
humanness will be enhanced, like the same way that, you
know, money makes you rich, sure, but it just amplifies
whatever type of person you are. i think it'll be the same thing with ai. like, it's just a current, it's amplifying whatever
interests you have. so if you're very interested
in, i don't know, art, you're going to be able to
download all of art history and have access to it at
any time that you need it. - yeah. - shit, no! - was that the guy that
i was supposed to shoot? - don't hurt me.
- no. - oh, well, i think so. - don't hurt me. - don't hurt me? - probably. - is don't hurt me, - is he dying or- - is that like a-
- i mean- - don't hurt me. - reverse psychology or what? - just take it easy, mister. - i think he has to die. - was i not supposed to kill him? (ing laughs) - damn it.
- oh no. i wasn't supposed to kill him. oh no. - i think we're not paying
attention to the mission and i think it's better that way. - i think it's more entertaining. - yeah. i thought for sure he
was trying to trick you. yeah, i'm definitely excited about ai, but you have to be- - you definitely have to be cautious. - especially about which
companies get the control of it. the more companies, the
more people have control, supervisor control of ai
systems, the better distributed. that's the cool thing
about chatgpt is like, it's pretty easy to build,
relatively speaking, so a lot of companies will be doing it. - what the hell's wrong with you? - oh no, you don't. - i just lassoed him.
- how'd you know that? wait, did you do that? - yeah, i did. - wait.
- oh wait, wait. what did i do? hold on,
why is it going this way? - okay. that started so nice. - i know that really went well. - "don't hurt me"? - okay, hold on. why is the horse- - lt, ready to lasso.
throw the lasso, rt. cool. - oh shoot. - all right, now you
just flirting with him. - lt held and then dismount. okay.
- why'd you kill him? i think you killed him. - press b near, oh, hog tying him. - oh, nice. he's really playing dead for you. - yeah.
- that's nice. - he's done. hold x, i'm just gonna pick him up. all right. are we kidnapping him? - think so. - approach the back of your
horse and hold x to stow him. - yeah. - okay. - i don't really think
it's kidnapping when he's like broken, dying in
the middle of the wilderness. i think you're saving him, honestly. - all right, let's get
back on the horse, i guess. - what's your name, boy? - i don't know. - you don't know your name. - it's kieran. - what's your name, boy?
- kieran what? - duffy, kieran duffy. - well i ain't gonna lie to you- - oh, this winter is brutal. - kieran duffy. - you think people will have
relationships with ai systems? - yeah, because the ai
system will be able to, i think, guess your needs very quickly. but i think it'll get boring. i think it'll be- - it'd be too perfect?
- yeah. would you date a robot? - maybe. maybe for a little bit. i don't think it would be as
fun as dating a human though, especially if humans
merge with technology. - sure. fun, that's an interesting word. yeah, i suspect the robots
would be too perfect. but if it's- - i think the human merging with the ai would be very interesting combo. - yeah, i agree. - because then you wouldn't
have this laggy brain that's like forgetting things. you would have more
interesting conversations and you would have, like,
all of your passions, you would be able to dive in
deep to them and then come up with really great ideas on
how to explore those ideas and research would become
more intuitive, i think. - yeah. it's a tricky
thing 'cause you want some, like, life should still
have some challenge. it feels like a lot of
our development happens in the face of challenge. but we just find new challenges with the, even though we gain extra abilities, we'll still find stuff that's challenging. - they're real nice. - you found the little shit, did you? - yep. i got him. - very good. welcome to your new home. hope you're real happy here. - [ing] this guy does not sound nice. - oh no, now all we'll get is lies. uncle. - mr. williamson. - tie this maggot up someplace safe. we get him hungry first. i got a saying, my friend, we shoot fellers as need shooting, save fellas as need saving, and feed 'em as need feeding. we are gonna find out what you need. i can't believe it, an
o'driscoll in my camp. - i ain't an o'driscoll, mister. - is that how you dress in boston? - pretty much. pretty much. it's too cold. - i would always under dress. - did you?
- yeah. i took the bus.
- were you driving a lot? - no, i didn't have a car.
i did red line and bus. i love it. - i love taking the t. - but i do bus much more, and standing in the bus stop freezing. there's an intimacy, there's
a romance to the bus. - there is some romance
to standing outside while it's cold out. - yeah.
- like you're bearing this cold, but why, like, what is it that you're
doing that's so important that you need to be facing these elements? - but you're also
together with other people that are just standing there and suffering and all pretending like
we're not suffering, but we're suffering.
- yeah. - but then we're not really suffering 'cause it's just cold, who cares? - it's just temporary too. - yeah. - no, i never understood
the romance of like, people would always post
like winter in miami and then post a picture
of them on the beach. - oh, i see. the troller?
- yeah. - wait, didn't you do that? (lex laughs) - i've never done that in my life. - i feel like you sent me a picture of- - i probably recently did that. - oh 'cause you're now a boss, you feel like you've earned the right to- - yeah, yeah.
- yeah, i got you. - we're gonna starve to
death up here, mr. morgan. - we're okay. - we have a few cans of
food and a rabbit, for what? 10, 12 people? - when i was in the navy- - i do not wish- - you know, i was thinking
about the barbecue. - what about it?
- that was so good. - should we go back? - should? i think so. - i'm very up for that. - for the record, we
went terry black's bbq. it was really good. it's
really, really good. - oh, it's so good. - it's funny, you take for
granted 'cause i haven't, just haven't gone in a while. - it's so delicious.
where do you usually go? - i just go to like
restaurants or just eat a home because like, i don't
know why it's almost like too delicious, but- - it's like a treat. - yeah, it should be like a treat, but it's not really- - it is really special
though when you do have it, like, because i feel like it takes a while to prepare that kind of food. like they're smoking it all day, right? - and i like it 'cause
like when visitors come and you go to like terry black's
and you do the barbecuing- - it's crazy, it's so good. - and because there's so many, like, the bar is so high and
then they still deliver. - yeah.
- that's cool. - and it's consistently great. like every time you go, it's amazing. you know, one time, my dad and i went, my dad used to do his residency
here and he was so excited. he was like, "i can't
wait to go have barbecue. i'm so excited you're gonna
live in texas," all this stuff. we ate way too much and
we got so sick afterwards. - that's the challenge.
there's a few tech folks here. they're really cool.
we went out with them, but we got trashed like
whiskey, just so drunk. and what i didn't realize
is when i'm that drunk, the whatever module in my brain that says "don't stop eating" was off. - off. yeah, because
your body is so relaxed. - and i'm having fun and
then all of a sudden, it's a good idea to order
like 10 pounds of meat. and then you're just-
- you ate all of it? - well, not just me,
like everybody together, and we're just eating, eating and just, and it's so hard to stop 'cause
it's so freaking delicious. and then you're drunk. that's happiness. - it's delicious. yeah, it's great. it's great while you're eating it. you know what i've noticed
about unhealthy foods or like treats? it's always really fun
while you're eating it, but before and after, there's always this
feeling of like regret. - yeah. - or like before you eat
a cupcake or something. i always feel this feeling of like, "i'm really gonna regret
this after i eat it, but i really want it." and
then while i'm eating it, i'm like enjoying it. i'm
like, "oh, this is so good. i want like another one."
and then afterwards i'm like, "why did i do that?"
- yeah. i have to really work
on that, to walk away. walk away while-
- it's tough. - like, you really want
a thing and you say, "nope, no more." god, that looks beautiful. look at that. - do you ski? - i have, yeah. i grew up cross country skiing, like on, you know, not downhill. i don't know what that-
- i was born in the- - i was born. (ing laughs) - on the mountains with the goats. no, i don't really. - with goats? why goats? - because they're really
good with the mountains. you don't know about that? - oh yeah, aren't they the ones that they, they stand on the edges of- - in a goat. oh yeah, what's your best, what's your favorite really bad meal that you shouldn't be eating? - my favorite really bad meal
that i shouldn't be eating? - cheat meal. - like, something naughty? probably like fried chicken. i love fried chicken. - like what kind? i don't think
i've had much fried chicken. so you're talking about like kfc, like? - no, so there's this
grocery store in miami, it's called publix and they
have the best fried chicken. like, it's so good. - oh, in like the little
spot that keeps it warm or whatever?
- yes. yep. and it's so good and they
have like chicken tenders. - it's super crispy and all that? - oh, it's so good. it's great. - with sauce of some kind? - no sauce. i'm not a sauce person. - okay. - are you saucy?
- no, respect. respect. - you're saucy? - no, i'm not saucy at all. i'm just giving you respect. - oh. - the people that cover stuff with sauce are the people that-
- scare everything around. - are you being, with sauces? - 100%.
(ing laughs) i'll have people here
in texas who are like, like legit barbecue, like aficionados or whatever you call that. - let's select a bow. - they will put sauce on their, they'll like dip it and stuff. they'll have like different sauces, right? - i did that the last time, i think. - you did-
- i put a little bit of sauce- - that's not cool.
- on my barbecue. - that's not cool, it's
disrespecting the meat. it's just not cool. it's like
putting ketchup on a steak, on an aged steak. - i don't judge people for putting sauce, but for certain things-
- i don't judge people. - i don't need sauce.
- i don't judge people. - it sounds like you're very
emotionally charged with this. - for anything, except-
- putting sauce. - except putting sauce in their barbecue. this is the one thing i judge them on. no, i don't care. but i like- - what am i looking for?
- great basic ingredients. why is it all slow motion? - because i activated eagle eye, i just don't know what i'm looking for. that's the problem is i
keep chatting with you. - and forgetting what you were doing. - oh, shoot. - all right, check it out. - oh, it's there. okay. - oh cool. it has a, what is that? it's like a scent? what is it? - stop running. you're
making too much noise. it's easier in the snow, but
once you get your eye in, you'll be able to track nearly
as well in grass and woods. - we're looking for an animal. okay, so then we focus
on the track and then, so all you have to do is
press rb while focusing on the track, i just don't
know where the track went. oh, there we go. so you see how it's like flashing? - how do you know we're
hunting for an animal? oh, stop tracking? i see. it's a giant tv and the text is blurry. i'm pretty sure my vision
doesn't suck that bad. - no, it's definitely, i think
it's just too much stimuli. like, it's like just a giant screen, you don't know where to look. - giant screen and a low
resolution or something? i don't know what it is. - aim for the head or neck- - there's the quality there. oh yeah.
- oh yeah. - see if you can get another one. - is there any other ones? - go get the meat. - i don't know how to uncrouch. - you press this button. - oh, okay. let a man handle it. (ing laughs) - i like how you did the hunting and i'm now doing the- - the gathering?
- the gathering. oh, hey. hey. wouldn't it tell
me to do stuff with it? - no, you have to look for more deer. - okay. - why is he crouching? looks like he's really
trying to be stealth. - anyway, besides fried
chicken. what else? - i love sweets, so i love chocolate.
- chocolate, dark? - i'm a milk chocolate girl,
but i love dark chocolate. - yeah, me too. i'm a milk chocolate girl because, yeah. - it's so much creamier. - yeah. yeah, it's more delicious. but then like the sophisticated people. how do i run? yeah. - dark chocolate's not bad. like, i'll have dark chocolate with like, like some nut butter in it. - but people will judge
you 'cause like the real, like if you're a real chocolate person, you're gonna do dark
chocolate 'cause it's like, - i don't think-
- the most sophisticated, complicated flavor, right? - that's like fake. that's
like someone going to, i don't know, some
restaurant and being like, "if you don't order this,
then you didn't really go to that place." i don't
think that really matters. i think it's all subjective. - same with like coffee. i
still drink instant coffee. - do you like instant coffee? - yeah. - i don't think i've
ever had instant coffee. - i don't like to admit it 'cause- - why?
- people say that, 'cause they don't consider
instant coffee real coffee, but i'm like, it's- - it's coffee.
(both laugh) - and it's like reliable.
like i can count on it, i know the flavor, it's good. i know the amount, the aroma. like, the whole point of,
not the whole point, but- - do you make it with hot water? - yeah, with hot water.
- or just water? - with hot water. hot water. i'm just running around. not that way. (ing laughs)
- what are you doing? - how do you know-
- he just asked you. - oh, so i should follow this
guy? but he's just crouching. - well, you have to use your eagle eye. - what's the eagle eye thing? - it's these two, you click
them down at the same time and you gotta look around because you're gonna run out of eagle eye. - how do i-
- i think we lost the animal. hold on. cancel it. okay, wait, don't do it yet. just go back to where that animal was and then look for the-
- right. - then look for the scent. - chocolate. - what are your favorites? like, something naughty though
because you eat very clean. - i don't think i use the
word naughty to describe- - describing food?
- we're describing food, it makes me uncomfortable. - does it?
(both laugh) - it's such a weird word to use. "i'm feeling naughty," i
don't think i feel naughty. it's just not, i think that's
just not in my vocabulary. yeah, i feel like, is this back? is this where it is? - wherever the animal,
(both laugh) why is he following you like that? - i think he likes the view. i don't know. - oh, okay, so the animal's over there. so get close to it and
then just look around and i'm sure you'll find the scent. i love baking, by the way. - actually baking? yeah.
- yeah. - yeah. so cookies, like oatmeal raisin. the best cookie is oatmeal raisin. i've got a lot of trouble over this. - not chocolate chip?
- yeah, i went to war on twitter over this. you're a chocolate chip girl? - yeah. - all right, so i'm doing
oatmeal raisin for me, like warm oatmeal raisin. - so one of my nephews
really loves oatmeal raisin, the other one loves chocolate chip. - what am i following? is that- - yeah, that's the scent. - anyway, oatmeal raisin cookie. like, a thick oatmeal raisin cookie. - thick?
- yeah, yeah, yeah. - no, the thin one-
- it has to be thick. - the thin ones are
like, it makes no sense. - because it's not enough cookie? - yeah, there's not enough like meat and substance to the cookie. good job. just like a warm, thick
oatmeal raisin cookie with some milk. - it's your jam? - with almond milk actually. - almond milk?
- yeah, with the cookie. - the creamy almond milk or like- - creamy.
- real almond milk? - i don't know what real almond milk is. yeah, real, but not sweetened. not sweet, unsweetened. who's whistling? - looking for the horse. gotta take this deer on
the horse. oh, there it is. - nice. - this horse is great. - what's your favorite cookie? - chocolate chip. yeah, i love a chocolate
chip cookie because there's so many different
ways of making it. i'm sure there's the same thing for- - you're just gonna leave the animal? - no, i'm gonna grab it,
i had to move the horse. - okay. (both laugh) - so i had the option to grab it. so you can make like cakey
chocolate chip cookies. - sure.
- you can make like a gooey chocolate chip cookie, you can make a chewy one.
- you gotta go gooey. - maybe chewy gooey. - chewy gooey. it depends on what, like,
you can add molasses, you can add-
- do you want it to crumble or do you want it to be chewy? - i don't like it crispy, i like chewy. - yeah, good. - good? (ing laughs) - there's a, you know, growing up in, i think it's like in the
soviet union that had i think there's a kind of cake, i don't know how it's called
it in english, but it's, (speaking russian) which is an anthill cake, i think. - is it like an angel hair cake? - no, it's condensed milk. - oh. - with a bunch of, you know
what condensed milk is or not? - yes, of course. - of course?
- i'm cuban. - oh.
(ing speaking spanish) - do cubans do this kind of thing? what do they use it for? - you use it for a lot
of different things, but- - desserts.
- desserts, yes. you can also, yeah, you can make a lot of
different things with it. it's delicious. - yeah, it's amazing. - it's like very sweet and gooey. okay, so what are you-
- probably horrible for you. it's a cake with, i don't know, it's called anthill. people can look it up, it's great. and it was just a source of happiness 'cause my mom will make it
every year for my birthday, so. - oh, that's delicious. - but then you like, as you
grow up you realize like, "oh, this is probably really bad for you." - yeah, it's not great. - and i'm the only one that eats it, so when she makes it,
it's like, all right, so- - the entire cake for you. - am i gonna do like this
20,000 calorie contraption? am i really going to take this on? and i do because i can't do a slice of it. - no, you just keep going.
- that's disrespecting the gods of cake. - so your mom likes to bake too? - yeah. - what else does she bake? like, what is your favorite
thing, like a home cooked meal? - she lost her husband, her home. - you know, it's like, i think it's just being with
family is the favorite thing versus like a specific meal,
probably like barbecuing, like, you know, i'll usually
grill, i'll make meat. so just getting together
around a grill and- - and then enjoying the meal
with whoever you're with? - and then just drink
like whiskey, vodka. yeah. - i feel that way about traveling. like, people romanticize
going to different places, but i think it's really about
the company that you keep. - yep. - we ain't run into them
much last six months. - it almost feels like
we're having a conversation, but we're actually on a
horse having a conversation. (ing laughs)
- it does feel like we're on a horse. - well. - which one am i and which one are you? - i think they look the same. - big gang. - look how big that deer
is on the back of my horse. - yeah. it's kind of incredible, this
game just looks beautiful. - yeah.
- it's like realistic. - blood feud.
- watch out, bear up ahead. - let's see if we can
find another way around. - wait, did he say bear? - yeah. what do we do about the, oh, i gotta get on my horse. there's a bear. (ing laughs) what are we gonna do about the bear? aim weapon, rt. - that's a bad idea. have
you seen the size of it? - all right, i guess we won't shoot it. - it could be cocaine bear. - it looks like cocaine
bear. look how big it is. - actually, in the trailer
for "cocaine bear," the cocaine bear doesn't look big. - he doesn't? - he looked kind of skinny. - well, he's a cgi, no? - yeah, i understand this, but like, i think they realized they can't make the cocaine bear fat 'cause then- - because then he would be lazy. - yeah, it would be a slow movie. you have to have like
a skinny, agile bear. - yeah, like just woke
up from hibernation. - yeah, took some cocaine.
(ing laughs) - accidentally.
- and just go nuts. i really wanna see that movie just to see- - like how far they'd take it? - like how can you have
a movie for two hours on a premise that feels like
it should not last longer than 10 seconds?
- it feels like a joke that you-
- it's like a tiktok joke- - say amongst friends for like 10 minutes, and like maximum 10 minutes. like, you have like this
weird banter about it and it gets weird after
like three minutes. - so literally, this is based
on that true story, right? so literally they're going to- (ing laughs) it is, it is. there was some cocaine in the woods, dropped off in the woods, right? so they're gonna do that
and they're gonna say, "oh, it looks like some bear ate into it." okay, that takes like
two minutes to introduce. what else is-
- maybe half the movie is just like the cocaine story. - it could be. - that ain't normally the case. - or maybe like looking
at how the cocaine changes the relationship the
bear has with his family and other bears, you know in
like, "the lion king" way. - yeah, i don't know.
it's a very silly movie. - it could be like a cool action film. maybe they're going like- - i think it might be hilarious. - kills a bunch of, like the
bear kills a bunch of people. - i almost hope that it's really dumb because i think it would
be funnier that way. - i hope liam neeson isn't- - who's that? - you made it made a giant
mistake for stealing my daughter. - that would be great.
(both laugh) - he would call the bear. - is that the guy from "taken"? - yeah, "taken." that's the one. yeah. - yeah. - i am a sucker for those movies. - for "taken"? all of them. he's in a bunch of, he plays the same exact
guy and he's such a badass. - those movies freaked me out. i think it was probably a good thing. - i'd love to talk to him on podcast. he's a really, really
interesting dude. and he like, same with what's the
guy from "breaking bad"? - i don't know his name but i
know who you're talking about. aaron something?
- no, no, the other guy. - that's the blonde guy.
- the older guy. - i don't know what his name is. - bryan cranston, i wanna say. he's like a badass in real life too. i like it when you're like- - when you don't just play the part, like it's part of who you are. - i feel like playing the part
made him more of a badass. - interesting.
- and then he embraced it. - you're goddamn right. - the part changed him,
and that's really cool. i mean, when you play a meth
dealer for like 10 seasons, whatever it is, it's gonna change you. - yeah, definitely. i mean, it'd be part of you now. - thank you for showing me
how to use the bow properly. - i only showed you a little. - it's like when you do
any job, it consumes you. - yeah. you've been working like crazy, right? - i work a lot. yeah. i work like 60 or so many hours a week. - that's good. - i love it.
- hard work is good. - yeah, it's important. - just drop it down in here. (ing laughs)
- what a surprise to find the camp rat loitering
around in the kitchen. - is that any way to greet an old friend? i feel like we haven't spoken for days. - i do my utmost to avoid you. - he loves me really. it's his
sad way of showing affection. - no, it isn't. now shoot, get lost. - well, see you gents later. - see you got on-
- it's interesting, you know, when you spend 60 or 70
hours a week doing something 'cause before that, i wasn't working. - jesus, what is that? - it's like become my entire life. it's all that i think about
to the point that sometimes when i'll go to a restaurant,
i'll see an elderly person, a person who's having a hard
time walking and i'm like, "i should be in the lab
working. like, what am i doing?" - yeah, yeah.
- why am i here? - that's really good. that
means you really care about it. i mean, you were talking
about it when i met you about prosthetics and
about that kind of stuff. that was a passion.
- yeah. - it's cool that you, like,
found that passion in this work. it's great. - yeah. i'm skinning a deer. - here we go. - ugh. i'm kidding. - did you have to press something? - just y. did you do any animal work ever? - yeah, dissecting in high school and college.
- like, high school? - yeah. yeah, for anatomy and physiology. yeah, it's funny. i miss high school for like
the educational aspects. - were you funny in high school? - thank you, mr. morgan. - what were you like in high school? - very like stoic, read a lot, and wrestling and sports and just that. - was there any book that really
shaped you in high school? - yeah, like, a lot. a lot. first it was like "the
stranger," which is probably by albert camus. it's like, i just reread it recently and it's not nearly as good. - as when you read it in
those formative years? - i've read other books that i've read and they're much better now. - or is it not as good in comparison to books that you've read-
- yeah. - after that? - see there's other books like, like dostoyevsky gets better
and better as i get older and i read that in high school, but "the stranger" was like, eh. but it's the first time i had this feeling of existentialism of like, it's the first time i
really intensely felt like, what's the meaning of it all? like, felt it, not just- - like an existential-
- yeah. - interesting. - and then, of course, you like take it like way too seriously. - yeah, and you get like really
depressed and nervous and? - yeah. - arthur. - dutch!
- gentlemen, it is time to make something-
- you know, the one that really hit me is? - get your horses ready.
- "animal farm." - oh, that's a great book. can i tell you which
character i like the most and then you tell me which
one you like the most? - sure, let's go. - can you guess? - well, it's not the pigs. is it molly, the horse that likes pretty- - how dare you?
(both laugh) - benjamin, the donkey?
- nope. - who's cynical about everything? - nope. i feel like it's obvious. - is it-
- it's boxer. - oh, yeah. (lex sighs) now you're just-
- working harder. - yep.
- by the way. - yeah, obviously it's mine too. you're stealing my best- - is that your-
- my vibe. yeah. yeah, i will work harder, but- - i think hard work is a
lot more important than, human intelligence doesn't
vary all that much. like, when you're smart,
i mean there's only, like, you can't get much smarter. - so you think hard work
beats the cliche talent? - yeah. - i think like a combination of the two, or like even just being passionate. - yeah.
- and putting in the work because you could be passionate and lazy. - i agree. - now come on, let's ride. - and i think sometimes if
you think you're really smart, it kind of holds you back to where you feel like you
don't have to try as hard. (cinematic game music) then it leads to like a
very, i think, boring life. but who knows? for some
people, they enjoy that. - this is straight up a movie. - it's beautiful. - what do you think is
the meaning of life? - what do i think is the meaning of life? - i feel like it's a
good thing to ask while we're watching a bunch of
cowboys ride through the woods. - i think nothing in life matters except for love and human connection. like, nothing else is
really all that important. like, i think when you look back on life, you look back on the
moments that you shared with other people, how
deeply you loved them, how deeply you felt things. i think all of that is important, everything else is just noise. - yeah. - you sure you're ready for this, kid? - i agree. - this is really beautiful.
the seasons are changing. - yeah, before our eyes. - what do you think is
the meaning of life? - how many times are you going to ask- - how good you can ride a horse (ing laughs)
or how pretty you look in a cowboy hat. that's probably it. - it would be crazy to go back there now. - so it's not wearing
shorts barefoot on a beach on a horse?
(ing laughs) - when the feeling strikes you, ing is referring to a
ridiculous photo of me, - it's my favorite photo-
- on a horse. - i've ever seen of a person. - yeah. - it's a fabulous photo. - the funny thing is there's a bunch of shirtless versions of that. - there's shirtless versions?
- it was like, you know, almost like ridiculous because
i rode the horse shirtless but then i put on a shirt, 'cause it's like too
ridiculous to take a picture of what you're doing. it was cool. like, riding a horse on sand
is a different experience and it's like looking out over the ocean. it's cool, it's an incredible feeling. why did you just shoot a gun? (ing laughs) - i had the binoculars. sorry. - this is how all bad things happen. this is why we can't have nice things. i think this is a good place to end it. - yeah, i think so too. - what game should we play next time? do you have ideas? - maybe we'll play gta. - could be. good thought. what's your big takeaway from
this journey we took together? did you like the game? - i love the game. - i love it too. - but it's also like,
it's almost nostalgic. - yeah. - that would be fun. - nostalgic, like
personally for you, like? - yeah, like i used to play this as a kid. - oh, i see you used to play this. i thought you meant
like, "it takes me back." - it takes me back.
- i used to- - to my old days when i used
to ride horses in summer camp. - me too, me too.
(ing laughs) - your shirtless mexico trip. - i don't talk about
that time. (ing laughs) - you don't talk about
that time. (ing laughs) - the things i've seen, the
things these eyes i've seen. (western music)