- this is a high quality cable, right? you know, if i was
doing a simple unboxing, i'd be fooled too. it's got a nice, flexible sheath, sturdy strain relief boots, ferrite rings for signal filtering. i mean, it says high speed right on it. they wouldn't lie, would they? (buzzer sound) they would, it's a piece of crap. it's dead, it's gone. and how do we know? thanks to total phase who sent over their advanced cable tester, v2. this thing is sick. now it's industrial equipment, so it's not the kind of
thing we typically cover, but it costs a fraction as
much as competing solutions, and we learned so much from using it that it absolutely deserves
some time in the spotlight. just like our sponsor, glasswire. keep track of the weird stuff
that's connecting to your pc, even when you aren't
using it with glasswire, if a strange device joins your wifi, you'll be notified instantly. so don't wait, save
25% by using code linus at the link down below. (upbeat music) so what you might say, you
can test the cable, big whoop, wanna fight about it. yeah, i do wanna fight about it. it's a very big whoop. we first explored the idea
of doing ltt store cables, a couple of years ago, but we
ran into a major roadblock. while it's easy to find
an overseas supplier who can produce every kind
of cable under the sun, it can be very difficult,
not to mention costly, to validate their work. you need an expensive
faciliscope, custom fixtures, and perhaps most importantly,
a skilled operator. or you can treat yourself to one of these. but what exactly do
you get for your money? well, a three amp, 12 volt power supply, all the associated cablery that's needed to operate the machine, a
tiny little sheet outlining all of the reasons that total phase can invalidate your warranty
and the tester, of course. there's not really much
to show on the outside. you've got your power switch. you got a lan and micro
usb port on the back. there's no interface whatsoever. so there's a little led here. this is a non-touch screen. you don't actually interact
with the unit at all, other than this slot right here. so on the inside, you've
got these two female slots and then the test boards for whatever type of interface you want. so this is an hdmi one,
just pop in like this. and then they've got these little, like, what are they, quarter of a
turn third of a turn, lugs. so it looks like a big
normal captive thumbscrew, but actually it's super,
super fast to install. let's poke around inside, shall we. now that we've got this baby opened up, you can see the chassis
is bigger than necessary, but not by much. all the main board traces and components are nicely laid out and labeled. so we've got 12 volt dc power coming in, right about there. and it gets stepped down into
3.3 and 5v on these lines where they go, ah, there's 3.3 and there's five right about there. and they've worked some clever
modularity into the design, our test interface sockets,
each with similar circuitry, come out right over here. and then they feed out
into what appears to be the processor stack on a
separate mezzanine board. we did by the way, note, a
couple of manually soldered wires here, but kyle from engineering
says they're i2c lines and won't affect anything, so
presumably it's the kind of thing that wasn't worth spinning up another revision of the board for. what i suspect does the actual processing is this one right here,
and this one right here, because those are the ones
they've scratched out. so yeah, this is doing some processing, but this is probably more of
a general purpose processor, hosting the web server and maybe taking whatever the outputs of these are. this is actually quite normal. it's not like they scratch those out because they were sending
them to the media. it's really common in
the same kinds of places where cables get made, cable factories, for people to try to
reverse engineer the tools that they need to make
and validate cables. so obviously anything they
can do to protect their ip from their customers even is
probably a worthwhile step. in theory, this thing is so simple to use that literally anyone could
validate pretty much any cable that they would find on a shelf. usb thunderbolt, lightning,
very, very frightening [music] galileo [music] display port, and even hdmi,
all the way up to version 2.1, which has a blazing 48 gigabit per second, across four twisted pairs. let's give it a whirl on
some of our many cables. we're at the size now where lmg owns a disturbing number of cables, like literally hundreds of
them in every freaking style and every freaking size. now we could test power
cables, but in our experience, those have been mostly problem-free. video cables, on the other hand, especially long ones or
specimens with odd terminations can and have given us
issues over the years, like these monoprice display port cables. i don't know that this is going to fail, but i have a strong
suspicion that it will. i remember our first standing desk configs in the editing den, we
used these for the monitors and i remember them having
a ton of problems with them. i'm starting with this display port cable, cause i am sure that there is
something le suck about it. these horrible cables, these cause so many headaches or maybe, maybe it was something else. now we're gonna know for
sure, just starts going. love it. (buzzer sound) i knew it. signal integrity, it sucks. let's have a look at
the full report though. so we want to go into details
here and things get real freaking interesting. on top of just pass fail, which is all most people
would need to know, here, we can dig into this
interactive diagram, pin by pin. we can make our way down
through all the different ways that it could fail, so you
can see our dc resistance is actually within spec and right there, - [colin] it outright failed. - no freaking wonder in
all the prep colin did for this video, i don't
think you saw this, did you? - [colin] no, i've never seen that. - it's time to make an e-waste bin. the next big reorg i
want us to take every bin and every cable and run them
through the cable tester. - yeah sure. - we take all the ones that don't pass, and throw them away. - deal.
- never to be seen again. you guys might be thinking
that sounds like a lot of work, but compared to the amount
of time that we waste trying to diagnose problems
that are ultimately caused by a crappy cable, oh. let's have a look at how
it's supposed to look with some cables that stand
a better chance of passing. is this our e-waste bin, by the way? - [man] that is. - see you later. premium high speed, etc,
let's find out, shall we? (buzzer sounds) oh my god. all of these pins here
are supposed to have ground connections for signal integrity, and they just don't. so while our signal integrity passes here, what could happen to this
cable, is that it could stop working if there's
something nearby that causes any kind of interference. pretty crazy. now i said that the
signal integrity passed, but clearly you can see
looking at these charts that this is where the
rubber hits the road from a science-y perspective. so we're gonna throw
over to professor riley to explain what the heck
we're looking at here. - thanks linus. i diagrams, are a visual
representation of the voltage on a pair of wires. these lines here are your signal. when the signal was up here
above the eye, it's a one when it's below, it's a zero, and that's binary data baby. (laughs) this gray hexagon outlined
shape in the center is the eye. and inside that is an eye mask in blue. that's a no-go zone. if any of our signal
lines enter the eye mask, the receiving device won't
be able to get a clean read of the signal, which means
the cable cannot be trusted. now let's look at a perfect i diagram. every sample of our signal ends up stacked right over top of the last
with no imperfections, this would allow us to
dramatically increase the clock speed of the signal, faster signal, more data. yeah. unfortunately in the real world,
no two samples will end up exactly alike and there are two main ways signal noise affects the
cable, signal loss and jitter. it's really big cards. signal loss is pretty easy to understand, as the length of the wire increases, the voltage measured at
the other end will fall due to the resistance of the wire. if it drops to within the eye, well that's game over baby. that's why higher quality
cables tend to use copper rather than aluminum due to
its superior conductivity. you really made this. as for jitter, well, it's
a little more complex, but in a nutshell, due to factors such as, electromagnetic interference
and processing delays, it's normal for signal timing to vary. this is mostly caused
by the signal source. and as you can imagine too
much variance puts us closer to the eye and closer to signal loss city, where data goes to die. that's all for this lesson. don't forget to hand in your homework. bye-bye now. (bell rings) - this one is poo poo. here's one of our longer hdmi cables. this is supposedly a 4k
uhd cable, so hdmi 2.0. oh wow, that's a pass. oh wow, you can see it's
a lot messier, but oh, that's really close. that's what happens when
you have a super thin cable that's longer though. you got a worst conductor. you got a worst freaking signal integrity. either way, it's a keeper. i wanna see how close it can
get for hdmi 2.1 spec though. (buzzer sound) 0% measured. do we have any of our hdmi 2.1 cables? let's see if these
cables we paid extra for for their hdmi 2.1 capabilities
are even any better. that's fine, just fine. we got a keeper here. this is your cable.
- [andy] this is my cable. - let's find out if you
wasted your money, andy, there's no way it's gonna do hdmi 2.1. (buzzer sound) ooh, it's borderline. - [man] yeah look at that,
it's 8db-9dbs of loss, and 13 on the final pair. - yeah, that's pretty cool, okay. i'm in like cable testing mode here now. okay, who's buyer's point. okay, buyer's point made this
hdmi, supposedly 2.1 cable. you wanna get called out buyer's point? called out in a positive way. so now that we know how all of that works, does that mean we're gonna
start reviewing cables? well, yes, but actually no. we're not just gonna take one
cable and do a review of it, that seems kind of ridiculous. but because cables are
one area of technology where snake oil and bs are
still extremely prevalent, i think there's a lot
of good that we can do by casting light on
brands or product lines that are not properly
adhering to the standards. and we want your guidance for
how to use our newfound cable testing powers for good, hdmi, 2.1, absolutely on our hit list, and usb-c. although boy, is that ever
gonna be a can of worms and a half. and if you guys have got other ideas, go ahead and leave them
down in the comments or hop over to our forum down below, because we want to know
what you wanna see. and since i'm telling you guys what to do, go check out our sponsor. do you think you don't need a website? well, that's a lie and
squarespace has got you covered. you can make any website you want, and it's easy to with squarespace. they have award-winning
templates that will help make your website stand out, instead of looking like it's from the 90s. and if you're looking to
open up a business online selling products, they've
got you covered there too. squarespace can help you showcase what you're selling in a modern style. they've got inventory
management built right into the platform, and there's no limit on how many items you can sell. we even use squarespace,
both our linus media group and ltx websites were built
quickly using squarespace. and if you ever get stuck,
they've got a 24 7 support team that is ready to help you out. so head to squarespace.com/ltt
and get 10% off at the link below. if you guys enjoyed this, check out our video on how
to make your own cables. it's an underappreciated gem.