i make glass klein bottles and i make cloth klein bottles. fabric klein bottles that fit on your head. if you start taking this inside-out i notice - oh, you pull it inside out and keep going, keep going, keep going - eventually you get a shape that - remember this is the same, same bottle. where the fabric is going in one direction and the other direction there's a circular hole where my finger touching this part of the manifold is going the left, this finger is going to the right. so there's a round hole around here. okay, i looked at that and i said: i'll bet that that's related to what in topology is called a cross-cap. i looked at it and i said, okay, that's nice to know. so one day i'm over here doing the laundry - brady come here, come here, check this out. so i'm doing the laundry one day and i reach in and pull out my jeans. well, my jeans see a lot of service. and i pull it out and i look at the pants leg! and well, there's a hole in the knee - i know that, i'll keep wearing it. but the pants leg has pulled through its hole so that it goes up along here and down along here! in other words if i had it the right way out, if it hadn't been pulled inside out; it'd be just an ordinary pants leg - with a hole in it. but it popped out of the dryer looking like this! and i looked at it and said, wait a second. this shape here, where one side is going this way, this side is going this way - it's the same fabric shape as i had with this! okay, so i said, hey i could probably make a klein bottle out of this pants leg! all i have to do is cut it across here and bring it around and sew it together. okay, so i start with this - cut off the leg right there. so now i have a pant leg, with a hole in the knee, in this funny shape what i'm calling a cross-cap and i think it's a topological cross-cap. all i have to do is bring this around, and do a fell seam to get this! i now have a, this hole has got to be the same as this hole! this pathway up here is the same as this pathway up here. this is a denim klein bottle, that you can make! and the way to make it - if you don't want to use denim - is you say, okay, find a shirt or a pair of pants. so you have a shirt that's, you know, your usual j-random shirt. and start by cutting the sleeve off, cut the sleeve along here. now i have the ingredients for a klein bottle. there is the hole that was in the sleeve, the cuff - i'll bring this, bring the cuff through the hole. i now have that interesting cross-cap going up this way, going down this way. bring these around so that the shoulder part is sewn to the cuff and that'll make a klein bottle. so this is the way, if you want a klein bottle out of an old shirt, you don't have to come to kleinbottle.com and buy this! you don't have to go get a klein bottle hat at - at my website! save you money, save me time, and recycle an old shirt into a topological manifold. you can get two klein bottles out of every old shirt you got! and another pair of klein bottles out of every pair of pants! is that a deal or what? and yes, there are klein bottles in here.