one of the mantras we have heard
ad nauseum since the beginning of the covid situation has been
that we need to follow the science. this phrase is repeated
over and over by politicians, by experts and by celebrities.
"let's end the politics and follow the science." this phrase
must be expressed with a certain level of condescension, implying
strongly that your ideological or political enemy is not
following the science. and if they did follow the science,
then they would naturally agree with your political position.
"will people listen to scientists?" we've heard certain
political parties smugly even call themselves the "party of
science". now, we could argue all day long over who is
actually following the science and people do, pointing fingers
at each other, and going down the dreadful line of clickbait
headlines citing some new study which suggests how their
position is the one following the science. but to do that is
already to miss the forest for the trees, because it is
actually simply, and dare i say technically, impossible to
simply follow the science. the question is far more
important than just surrounding the current covid situation.
it's rather the sign of the general blind materialism which
rules the common discourse. we're wowed by the scientific
priestly caste. we only need to look at the type of reverence
the media placed around dr. fauci in the united states. but
like i said, despite our officials constantly repeating
this mantra, it is impossible to just follow science, at least
not at the outset. when science is doing what it's
supposed to, it's an accurate and quantifiable description of
phenomena at a certain level of reality. and so because
phenomena happen in a predictable pattern, then once
you've described a phenomenon accurately enough, it can be
possible to produce the same phenomena with similar
conditions. so think of the scientific process as producing
something like a recipe book. once you've identified something
relevant, let's say making a pound cake, then the recipe book
will tell you what stuff the cake is made of. so if you
follow a set process using similar quantities, you know,
what certain raw materials, eggs, flour, etc, and a certain
amount of time, then you should be able to reliably produce the
phenomena which will be recognised, which will have the
recognised qualities of a pound cake. so notice i said if you
follow a set process, which of course seems to suggest that you
can, in fact, follow science, but this is exactly where lies
the problem and the blind spot which has become so common. you
can only follow the science once you have identified what it is
you care about, what it is you want to do, and especially what
is your hierarchy of priorities within a certain context.
science cannot tell you what is important. so let's say you decide you want
to kill as many people as efficiently as possible, well,
then you can follow the science to find the best procedure and
tools to do so. if you want to reproduce a nuclear explosion,
make people addicted to your product, create an army of
robots, then science can possibly help provide a map to
accomplish these measurable goals. but science has no tools
whatsoever for telling you what you should do, what goals you
should be aiming for. and science also cannot tell you
what is the reasonable amount of resources you should spend on a
certain goal, or what else you need to sacrifice to accomplish
your goal. so let's say you want to make your pound cake. but you
can only get eggs by driving two hours from your house. well,
science has no way of telling you if that is a reasonable
thing to do. or if you want that pound cake enough to sacrifice
that time and energy to still make it, maybe you do. and this
blindness has been the source of one of the biggest political
clashes since the end of world war two. following the science has
provided the means of material excess of comfort and throwaway
culture and now other branches of science, environmental
science, is telling us to follow the science to save the
environment from the results of this other branch of science who
develop their industrial thrust by following the science. and so
science is a tool and neither of these opposing narratives,
neither the reason for the development of industrial
civilization, or the reason for the green reduction of energy
consumptions are scientific in themselves. both paths, both
mentalities, follow the science, but they do so to their desired
goal. so this whole question has reached almost absurd levels
with the covid situation. we're constantly told to follow the
science, that, you know, this or that political decision or
mandate is not in fact political but is mandated by science. at
best, this is the naive proposition of people who are
unaware of their own frame, unaware of what motivates their
action, but at worst, it is a new form of moralising which
wants to pretend that its moral stances are as self-evident and
as provable as two plus two equals four. the goal is
sometimes stated. at first, we had a goal, we were told that we
needed to prevent the medical system from being overwhelmed.
but then the goalpost moved invisibly to, "we need to stop
our people from dying at all costs." and finally, the
goalpost became, "we need to stop this disease from being
spread to anybody at all." so despite moving the goalposts,
authorities continued to use this same message, "follow the
science," while pretending that the goal is continually obvious.
it is just taken for granted and is just plainly there in the
science itself. of course, if you have followed my channel,
you have bumped into this problem over and over. it's the
problem that i had in my discussion with brett weinstein,
where science was posited at the top of the hierarchy of meaning.
it's the blind spot in my discussion with rationality
rules, where moral arguments were made as if their ultimate
purpose were evident, while simultaneously being incapable
of framing, of naming or even seeing that purpose before
invoking this or that example or this or that consequence. all of
these conversations are in a different way than we usually
mean it. they are blinded by science, honestly thinking their
objective, though blind to their presuppositions. thinking
they're objective and scientific, they take their
unseen presuppositions as self evident truths, which people,
which all good people or people who have good intention, should
be able to see. and so those of us who question this or that
moral position can find ourselves in dangerous
situations. because if one takes their point of view as
self-evident, this inevitably means that those who do not
share this perspective are doing so out of ill will, or with
purposeful and utilitarian denial of science. that's why we
always hear a note of contempt. every time a political figure or
public figure says, "follow the science" or when they suggest
that their political opponents refuse to follow the science.
accusing someone of not following science is akin to
accusing them of breaking a divine command. science is of
course objective, non-ideological, and so to not
follow science is to go against reality itself. it's a sin,
properly speaking, for those who think like this. of course, all the while the
inquisitor is hiding or maybe even unaware of the true purpose
of his actions. that is why i say there is imminent danger
right now. as for the reality of safety versus danger, of saving
lives versus providing opportunity, normal societies
have always had to find ways to balance these extremes. it's not
easy, of course. but this is an inevitable discussion that we
should be able to have without those who want to have the
discussion being accused of being "science deniers" or being
insensitive and evil. if the goal of human society was only
to save lives, we would not go rafting or mountain climbing or
even get on the highway. we know that intuitively. but despite
that, we're suddenly paralysed by this strange illusion that
safety and protecting our bodies is the only value that matters.
of course, it would be absurd to say that it does not matter. of
course it matters, we should care for the physical wellness
of those around us. but it cannot be our only guiding
value. safety cannot be accomplished at the expense of
every other value which constitute the human experience.
value like community exchange, adventure, risk taking and
especially worship. every time you get into a car, you risk
your life. and every moment you are in a car you could die in a
few seconds. and this is in no way under your control. you're
are also at the mercy of other drivers. in the united states,
for example, the rate of death for car is about 12.4 per
10,000. but there are also 4 million people who are seriously
injured by car crashes. road crashes are in fact the leading
cause of death in people between 1 and 54 years old. now, we
could reduce the death and injury rate of car crashes very
easily. we could simply stop all private cars from going on the
road. done. or we could reduce the speed on the highway at 20
miles per hour. i mean, i bet that would bring down the car
death toll and injury took nearly zero. it would work but
we're not going to do it. so why aren't we going to do it? i
mean, why wouldn't we do it? am i saying that getting to my hair
appointment or to some, you know, to go to the mall is more
important than people dying? so we intuitively understand
that in order to live our lives we incur risks of dying. of
course, car crashes and infectious diseases are not the
same. and we certainly need to care for the weak and the
elderly. but my point is rather to feature our willingness to
accept the constant risk of dying at any second every day.
and intuitively knowing that safety cannot become the only
value which drives our society. and we must be very wary of
those who refuse to even have the discussion, insisting that
the very discussion is immoral, because it doesn't "follow the
science." we have to be more aware of what a human being is,
and not let that go to the side in a society that is built only
on one single value, a value of safety or security. a human
person is more complex has other values, other purposes and some
are actually more important than our safety. i hope enjoyed this discussion
on symbolic world. as you might have noticed, i am in a new
space. i am back in my home since the flood in 2019. but you
can also notice that i am not yet set up. i'm really
struggling to set up my office; the stores are all closed, we're
on lockdown and the stores are also out of everything. i can't
even find a desk the right size for the office. and so i'm kind
of floating around trying to get everything installed and trying
to get everything right. but very soon, things will be
better, you notice the camera is better, the sound will also be
better, the lighting will be better. and so i'm really
excited to see what 2020 one's going to offer us in terms of
insanity. and hopefully i'll be able to comment on it as best i
can. and so i want to thank everybody for your support. as
you know, everything i'm doing here is thanks to your support.
and so if you're interested in supporting the podcast, these
videos, go to thesymbolicworld.com/support,
you will find ways to support it there. you can also buy some of
my designs, different designs that i've made on teespring. and
so thanks everybody and i'll talk to you very soon.