- i'm about to spend the next
30 days using a chromebook. and to get the best outta my experience, i'm going to go all in
on the google ecosystem. what could possibly go wrong? do i have to do it? - [jared] yes. - these are the devices
that i'll be leaving behind for the next 30 days. we've got my 14-inch macbook
pro, the iphone 14 pro, my samsung galaxy z flip4, as
well as my sony linkbuds s, as well as my apple watch series 7. this is what i gotta give up to embrace the google lifestyle. although thankfully, i don't have to wear
this shirt the whole time 'cause if i had to wear
this shirt for 30 days, i'd be really grumpy. the first task here is going
to be getting a new computer. i've gotta find a chromebook. - [jared] (gasping surprisingly)
did you say the c-word? - i said the c-word. using google stuff is not new to me, i use a ton of google stuff
on a very regular basis. and i think on the phone
side, i'm going to be fine. the thing to consider is i use a lot of apple products, right? not only do i use the
iphone and the apple watch, but also i use a mac and
mostly that is for work. so, my biggest fear is that chrome os is not going to let me
do the work that i need. i rely every day on
thunderbolt accessories which the chromebook does not have, i use things like final cut which is certainly not on the chromebook, and i'm also dealing with moving around just massive video files and
dealing with server stuff. i think i'll be able to find workarounds, i think i'll be okay, but
i'm worried about that. my wife is gonna kill me when she finds out i don't
have facetime anymore. (everyone laughing amusingly) alright, so i've made my decision. this is a $380 lenovo chromebook tablet. so, this might not be terrible. i mean, it's an 11-inch chromebook tablet. it's powered by a snapdragon 7c gen 2. it's not gonna be fast. it's also only got four gigs of ram. but, it does come with
the full attachment. it's got not only the
kickstand on the back, but it also does have the
keyboard, the trackpad. and i've also got myself
a pair of pixel buds. this should be my computing
setup for a month. i don't see what could possibly go wrong. i've got four gigs of ram! - [jared] how many more gigs do you need? - 12. yes, this chromebook costs 1/10 the price, which is quite nice. and yes, it's small. but, i'm gonna get really annoyed
at the lack of performance that four gigs of ram is gonna give me, especially with that tiny screen and the very small keyboard. i'm gonna regret my decisions. so, let's take a look at the devices that i'm going to be
using for the next month, starting with the brand new pixel 7. here's the thing, as much
as i love the z flip... shh, don't tell anyone. i have dailied pixels in between. like, there have been times where i've cheated on the z flip. every year, i've cheated
on the z flip with a pixel for at least a little bit. now to be fair, i always go back, but going from z flip to pixel, android to android phone is super easy. there are also advantages here. it's got better cameras, it's gonna have better battery life, it's going to have a non-flippy screen which is easier just to kinda
pull out of your pocket. so, i think i'll be
okay without the z flip. i also have the pixel watch, which is going to be a little
less easy to deal with. i use the apple watch so much. i use it for sleep tracking,
i use it for workouts, i use it for notifications. and while the pixel watch
is good, don't get me wrong, i just don't think it's
gonna do them as well. my biggest concern with this
whole challenge, hands down, is going to be spending
time with the chromebook. i actually really like chrome os and i think that there's
real advantages to using it, especially if you're a student or if you're at an enterprise where you need to manage
a bunch of things. and realistically, i know that almost everything
i do on a daily basis, i can do on a chromebook. the problem might be more
so with this particular one because while it is very small, and i am a huge fan of tiny things, this is very underpowered. - [jared] let's see what we
got! (laughing amusingly) - i actually really like
the way this hardware feels. and you've got dual side-firing speakers, so you've got proper stereo. you've got what seems to
be a very small webcam, but it's in the correct orientation since no one's ever gonna
wanna use the tablet like this. you do have a rear-facing camera. and it feels nice, i mean it's- - [british voiceover] aluminum. - that's got this sorta
like nice soft-touch finish. all like closed up, it
actually feels nice. so, it's plastic, but it's kinda got like a
fake sort of cloth texture. the fact i've got two usb-cs is nice. this is gonna sound weird,
i'm actually kind of excited to spend time with the chromebook. - [jared] what? - the thing is i actually like
using chrome os sometimes. i've used chromebooks in the past. now, this is gonna be the longest that i've completely committed to using one on a daily basis. but look, i have been making
videos on tech for a long time, but it still excites me
to try new things, right? and while i've used chrome os in the past, i haven't used it in a while. so, i'm curious to see how a $380 chromebook right
off the shelf can perform when i just drop it into
my normal day-to-day tasks. so, first step is i'm going to attach the
little kickstand thing. it's very stiff on the
hinge, so i can easily... oh yeah, look at that. (jared cringing loudly) $380 of quality right here. now, we also have the ver... - [jared] hmm. - this is an 11 inch display, not an 11.6, an 11-inch display. i just realized it's not
a full-size keyboard. yeah, that's like a 95%-size keyboard. look at the "backspace," look
how small the "shift" is, look how small all of these
keys on the right are. what have i done? there was a $700
chromebook that they had... that's a lightning port. okay, see,
(jared laughing amusingly) this is emblematic of my life now! i'm trying to plug a lightning port... (sighing disappointingly) but, on the flip side,
i wanted to be true... the pixel just- - [jared] dude! it's gonna be broken before you even have a chance to use it. (jared laughing amusingly) - thankfully, i do have
a pair of pixel buds pro. the most important thing, do
they pass the pocket test? - ooh!
- ooh, they do, they do. - [jared] that's a tight fit. - a little tight, but it's fine. you know what they say
about a tight fit, "it fit." day one. let's go, baby! google, google, google, google! (menacing music swelling) alright, so i'm winding
down day one with the pixel, and so far, pretty good. i'll say the pixel watch has
been less than spectacular, mostly because the
original pairing process was super annoying, and having to log into the fitbit account as well as the normal
account has been annoying. but outside of that, things
have been fairly smooth. so, wrapping up day one
for my google experience. so, let's start out by
talking about the pixel 7. and look, i've been a big fan
of pretty much every pixel that's come out since the first one, even back to the nexus days. and the 7 is no exception. it's a much more refined version of the 6. the only real downside that i really have in my
day-to-day life is on the video. so, you're looking at video directly off the pixel 7 right now. and it's fine and it's decent, but that's one of the biggest
advantages in my opinion of the iphone. and that is a huge reason why i've, while i prefer the hardware of the z flip, still continuing to also carry
an iphone at the same time. so, i've been using a z
flip as my main device for a few years now. however, the iphone has
stayed in my back pocket for one major reason: i
can't always rely on android. now, that might sound like
a really weird thing to say, but i've run into a lot of
scenarios where i need to, say, post a sponsored story on instagram, and i've had issues uploading it from the android instagram app. it works most of the
time, but i've had issues where it suddenly comes out like looking potato quality or something. and you know what i
don't have to worry about for my livelihood, is relying on my iphone to
do the exact same thing. i also just finished up a
workout with the pixel watch. the set-up process is
annoying, it's just not good. there's the fitbit layer,
there's the google layer, you have to sync it all up. it's a bit of a pain. but, once i just got into the workout, the fitbit stuff worked pretty well. i mean, the heart rate tracking, the kind of zones and stuff,
i actually like that more than the way that the apple watch does it. the pixel buds have actually
been... (sighing fairly) they're kind of mid, i guess,
is my first impression. the noise canceling isn't great. like, i actually was cycling between transparency and noise canceling, and i couldn't necessarily tell a massive, massive difference. not impressed with the buds. so, i was in the middle
of pairing my pixel buds to the pixelbook, and i realized there's a
little bit of a problem. take a look at my pixel
buds less than 24 hours in. can you see how blue? like, my jeans have rubbed off so much. look at that.
- oh, wow. - these are brand new. it's been put in this pocket
maybe three or four times ever, and it is already looking massively blue. so, as part of this challenge, i am only using google
products whenever i can, which means that i'm using
youtube music instead of spotify. for music, it's totally fine. but my favorite podcast, "dissect," just dropped the first
episode of a new season on one of my favorite albums
and i can't listen to it. i caved. (laughing amusingly) so, it is day four and i'm doing a little
bit of work on the server with the chromebook. now, this is clearly a bit of
an issue because our servers are entirely run using
either windows or mac. so, mostly what i'm doing here is just keeping up with like spreadsheets and data management stuff, which
i can do in the chromebook. but, the actual like
interfacing with the server has to be done on the
mac that's sitting here, that's in the rack. one thing i found that has
been a real learning curve is dealing with the trackpad. the trackpad is not horrible and the keyboard is a little
bit better than i thought. but the problem is is that
when it comes to using it for extended periods
of time, and you know, dealing with like spreadsheets
and that kinda stuff, it is so irritating.
(laughing frustratingly) it's just not a good trackpad. so, i've gotten to carrying
around my mx master with me everywhere i go. i literally walked into the server room, brought the mouse 'cause i knew i was not
gonna wanna sit here with the trackpad for that long. it is time to unwind and play
some games on my chromebook. so, what i think i'm gonna do is i'm actually going to use game pass, and i'm gonna pick up my "cyberpunk" game that i was recently playing on xbox. so, let's see how this goes. well, my xbox controller isn't
pairing particularly well. (laughing amusingly) uh... time to play a cloud gaming service that i can use a mouse with! it was a pretty smooth day. pixel was completely rock solid, i've had no real battery issues. the same thing actually
goes with the chromebook. i've actually been pretty happy with it. now, mind you, the
performance is not great. so, i'm gonna sit down, get some email done on the chromebook, watch some "andor," and call it a night. but, i actually don't think this is gonna be that hard of a challenge. like, i'm actually starting
to kinda see the light, although i miss some
things. (laughing cutely) so, ken? - yeah? - i have had quite the journey so far. and- - [jared] whatchu got on there? - don't worry about it. it's the pixel watch 2, made by tim cook. - great, are you having
fun? (laughing amusingly) - i actually kind of am, like- - really? okay. - the thing is i feel like i only have like one of these
videos in me a year, right? because you know, i get settled in with my
ecosystem and all my devices. and yeah, i'm sadly looking
at my z flip on the counter, not being able to touch it for a month, but like it is kind of fun for me to kinda like get outta my comfort zone and try a bunch of stuff. because things like this chromebook have been legitimately interesting to me in ways that i was not expecting. last week, i purchased this chromebook
for $380 from best buy. it is now on sale for $299. - [ken] okay. - on top of that, if you wanna get a slightly
older version of this, it's on amazon for like $230 bucks. - i mean, this hardware feels nice. it actually kind of feels
like a proper folio. it has a nice texture
to it, i love the color. - i'm gonna take advantage
of the google ecosystem. - oh, can you unlock it with your phone? - unlock my phone, and then... - oh, okay, okay. - the main thing where this struggles is when you have multiple
tabs and whatnot, four gigs of ram is just not enough. also, something i've realized, while this can run android apps, i kinda don't run android apps that often. so, spotify has a web app
and also the android app- - you didn't use google music? - uh... but, the spotify android app, literally, it was like skipping. it was not playing my music back smoothly. when you're on this chromebook, if you can live inside the
browser and not using apps, it's better. so, i use slack in the browser, i use spotify in the browser. the only things i do... and most of the other ones
i have that are "apps" are just chrome tabs that are just sort of pinned in windows. single-tasking is fine, multitasking is where it
gets a little sketchy. - so, for grandma, it's fine. - no, for those who are
patient and can deal with- - so, grandma. - yes. so now, i have something i don't wanna do, which is to create a thumbnail
using the chromebook. so, i'm here with my good buddy, myke, who's my co-host on the
"backmarkers" podcast. and 'cause i gotta make the thumbnail, i gotta figure out how to use canva. what is canva? it looks like there's so much... look, i can make a
website, print a product, create a video, or i can play with canva. what? - just play with it. - i can just play with it.
- just play with it. - when i fail, can you use
photoshop to create them all? - yeah.
- okay, cool, thanks. the most attractive thumbnail. (myke laughing amusingly) oh, it's a 404. youtube thumbnail templates. okay. wow! these are actually good. "customize template," let's go. alright, so i'm gonna
specifically use canva because this actually
works inside the browser. now, there are certainly
android apps that i could use. there's even things like lightroom which you are sort of optimized. but, based on my terrible
experience running android apps, i wanna stay inside
chrome as much as i can. - ooh, i like the font, the font's great. - this is another kinda disaster actually. actually, no, performance is not bad. there we go, there we go. now, i need a photo for the background. i'm gonna look up a
royalty-free image of a ferrari. - don't just... i'm just gonna... (static buzzing) - paste. oh! (myke laughing amusingly) oh, you can go play graphics and stuff? this is actually not bad. - subscribe. there. (both laughing amusingly) - here's the thing, like
this actually is fine. - canva's fine, you just
don't know how to use it. - "ferraris suck: disaster in two weeks." okay, sure. (both laughing amusingly) how do i export this? i need to save this one,
just for my own personal use. that's a thumbnail right there
that i made on a chromebook. three or four people would click that. i think that's a win. i'm feeling good about myself. can you please photoshop
us a good thumbnail? (laughing amusingly) so, this is the first time that i have launched a
video from my chromebook, and it's working right? so, i've had problems when i've done challenges
like this with an ipad because some things like
uploading the captions for videos and some of the backend analytics stuff straight-up will still
not work on an ipad. and thankfully, it is
working on the chromebook. the problem though is
that four gigs of ram. i am playing this stuff back right now. i think we should do our
own ai art generation- it's like dropping frames. it's like you can tell that
it doesn't have the bandwidth. it just can't handle this well. that being said, i am able
to get this video live. it's a compromise, it's
not a deal breaker. but, this is probably the roughest thing i've
done with the chromebook, and it's not that demanding. now, the astute among you may
notice something different on my wrist. so, i switched back to the apple
watch. (laughing amusingly) i made it five days with the pixel watch. stuff like if you wanna
go to pick a workout, pick the fitbit exercise
app, then it doesn't... unlike the apple watch-
- ah yeah, the fitbit thing's kind of annoying- - yeah!
- and they make you use it. - it's like, stupid. so like, on the apple watch, if i'm gonna pick a workout, it shows me all the workouts
i've most recently done. on the fitbit, it gives
me one or two workouts, and if that's not those, i have to scroll through
like 30 different things to find the thing i'm gonna do. i'm like, "why can't you
remember i did this yesterday?" the moment that i gave up on it, okay? - yeah. - i'm at the gym, i'm like
30 minutes into a workout, i missed a very important call
that it did not notify me on that the pixel had all
the notifications on. i don't know what happened, maybe didn't catch it or whatever. but, that was the final straw. i literally went straight
home, took the pixel watch off, went back to apple watch. i would rather use this on wifi and lte than the pixel watch. (tape stopping abruptly) - what's up? - is this curved? look, i'm gonna barely
flex this a little bit. (gentle pensive music) - oh, jesus! okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
(everyone laughing amusingly) - look at it.
- okay, okay. stop, stop, stop. (ken laughing amusingly) that is- - [jared] 21 days, austin! you can't break it yet. - [ken] you made it worse. - i know! no, no, like one finger, one
finger, watch, one finger. - [ken] no, no, no, no, no, no. okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. you need to chill. stop that. (ken laughing gently) - honestly, i'm flabbergasted. i have not done any durability testing. it's been fine, but it's literally curved and it's been in my bag for a week. nevermind, i said a lot
of nice things about it, i didn't realize you could take one finger and almost snap it in half. honestly, i'm rethinking almost everything i've said about this chromebook throughout. as much as i've found like
using chrome os interesting and this hardware to be mostly good, that might be the flimsiest bit of bending i've ever seen in my entire life, including like cheap wish
tablets and everything. i don't trust that this
is gonna last the 30 days! i don't trust this is gonna last a year or multiple years in someone's backpack, i don't believe it. - but on the upside, austin, you've always wanted a z
flip replacement, right? here you go. - [jared] good luck on the
rest of your three weeks. (gentle pensive music continues) don't sit on it. - [ken] don't drop it. don't look at it. (jared laughing amusingly) (gentle pensive music continues) - alright, it is a monday, which means that i have
spent the last three hours on this beautiful webcam on my chromebook. yeah, today was not super smooth. i mean, to be fair, it's worked but, you can see the auto exposure is just wildly all over the place, which is fairly indicative
of cheaper lower-end devices. but, the other thing that i think was a little
bit more of a problem was this thing was lagging on me as i was trying to like be
on a video call on one tab, pull up like docs and other things. like, it was chugging pretty hard, more so when i tried to
plug it into my monitor to have some extra screen real estate. that did not work. not an amazing experience, which shouldn't be a surprised
as my face keeps flickering. but, i certainly had hoped
for a little bit better. so, i've got a little bit of a problem. so, i've got- - [british voiceover] to commit tax fraud. - in a couple days, and
i'm a little worried about actually relying on this on the day. i think it will work. i have usb-c, i can plug in
my mic and everything else, but just seeing how it's been choppy makes me legitimately
concerned to trust this for an actual real thing. like, it's one thing if i'm goofing around and it takes a bit, but i am recording something
live for a sponsor. i can't exactly just lag out or have choppy audio
or anything like that. like, i think it'll be okay, but it's really kinda
making me second guess how much i can really
trust the chromebook. which is unfortunate because it's generally been fine so far. yeah, not feeling super
confident right now. (tense dramatic tone) like it just literally
will not open for me. do you know what's going on, do you know why i'm having this problem? - [person on phone] um, no, but you were supposed to be
here about five minutes ago, and we really need you to start soon. - i'm trying to join right now, but the problem is is that literally, the link is just not functioning. like, it loads and then it shows nothing. - [person on phone] okay. um, well... - can you send me a new link? can you send me like an
updated link that i can try? 'cause this one's just not working. - [person on phone] yes, i can send you an updated link right now, just try and get here as soon as possible. - okay, thank you. alright, see ya. i'm gonna throw this
chromebook out the window. so, i'm trying to do something
very important right now, and it is literally not working
and i'm gonna get grumpy. (inhaling heavily) (key clicking laboriously) now's not the time, okay? now's not the time! i'll just close it up and i'll just... i'm getting my macbook,
i'm getting my macbook. (exhaling stressfully) i apologize for getting
just a little bit upset. i'm all down for a challenge, i'm all down to do something
to learn about the experience. and i have learned a lot spending the last several
weeks with this chromebook. almost none of my problems really have come down to chrome os. it really has been down to the hardware of this
particular chromebook. for basic use, it is totally acceptable. but, i feel like i need a little bit more. this snapdragon (sighing
quickly) chip in here is a low-end processor. four gigs of ram is not enough. and when you put that all together with the flaws of a fairly small tablet that bends when you start to flex it... (sighing disappointingly) there's certainly things
i like about chrome os, and there's certainly things i've learned about really leaning into
the google ecosystem. but also, there have been
some real shortcomings that have been made very clear to me. when you look at apple, they have an absolutely
impeccable ecosystem. every single apple product works well with other
apple products, right? and the more you get, the better it is. sure, there's a little bit
of a nefarious angle there, where if you wanna try
to leave that ecosystem, suddenly half of your
things don't work anymore. and i get that, that's a
completely real trade-off. but, when i can use my apple
watch to control my apple tv which is running an
airplay video from my mac as i'm streaming on my phone. like, all these things when
they work together so well, i kind of expected that going all google would be a little bit more of
a stronger value proposition, and it really isn't. yeah, an android phone and chromebook do work together relatively well, you can unlock it and stuff. but generally speaking, nothing really talks to
each other in the way that something like a series
of apple products would. and that's the thing that's been the most disappointing element of this entire sort of video. so, i don't think it's a surprise, (gentle rhythmic music) i'm gonna go back to the way i was using
devices before this. and i'm gonna use an apple watch to check my blood pressure right now 'cause i think it's still
elevated after that.