on the evening of friday, february 3, 2023, 38 
of 149 cars of a norfolk southern railway freight   train derailed in east palestine, ohio. five of 
the derailed cars were carrying vinyl chloride,   a hazardous material that built up pressure in 
the resulting fires, eventually leading norfolk   southern to vent and burn it in a bid to prevent 
an explosion. the ensuing fireball and cloud   brought the normally unseen process of hazardous 
cargo transportation into a single chilling view,   and the event became a lightning rod of 
controversy over rail industry regulations,   federal involvement in chemical spills, 
and much more. i don't know about you,   but in the flurry of political headlines and 
finger pointing, i kind of lost the story of   what actually happened. freight trains, like 
the one that derailed in east palestine,   are fascinating feats of engineering, and the 
national transportation safety board (or ntsb)   and others have released preliminary reports 
that contain some really interesting details.   i'm not the train kind of engineer, but i think 
i can help give some context and clarity to the   story, now that some of the dust has settled. 
i'm grady, and this is practical engineering.   in today's episode, we're talking about 
the east palestine train derailment. modern freight trains are integral to daily 
life for pretty much everybody. look around you,   and chances are nearly every human-made object you 
see has, either as bulk raw materials or even as   finished goods, spent time on the high iron. 
one of the reasons trains are so integral to   our lives is because there's nothing else that 
comes even close to their efficiency in moving   cargo over land at such a scale. steel wheels 
on steel rails waste little energy to friction   (especially compared to rubber tires on asphalt). 
locomotives may look huge, but their engines   are almost trivial compared to the enormous 
weight they move. if a car were so efficient,   its engine could practically fit in your pocket. 
and yet, the trains those locomotives pull are   not so much a just a vehicle as they are a moving 
location, larger and heavier than most buildings. with this scale in mind, you can see why 
the crew in a locomotive can't monitor the   condition of all the cars behind them without 
some help. a rear-view mirror doesn't do you   much good when part of your vehicle is a half 
hour's walk behind you. there was a time not   too long ago when every freight train had a 
caboose. part of their purpose was to have   a crew at the end of the train who could 
help keep a lookout for problems with the   equipment. now modern railways have replaced 
that crew with wayside defect detectors. these   are computerized systems that can monitor 
passing trains and transmit an automated   message to the crew over the radio letting them 
know the condition of their train in real time. defect detectors look for lots of issues 
that can lead to derailment or damage,   including dragging equipment, over height 
or over width cars (a hazard if the train   will be passing through tunnels or under 
bridges), and, important in this case,   overheating axles and bearings. depending 
on the railway operator and line,   these detectors are often spaced every 
10 or 20 miles (or 15 to 30 kilometers). the freight train that derailed in east palestine, 
designated 32n, passed several defect detectors   along its way, and ntsb collected the data 
from each one. the suspected wheel bearing   responsible for the crash was located on the 
23rd car of the train. at mile post 79.9, it   registered a temperature of 38 degrees fahrenheit 
above the ambient temperature. ten miles later,   the bearing's recorded temperature was 103 degrees 
above ambient. that might seem kind of high,   but it is still well below the threshold set by 
norfolk southern that would trigger the train   to stop and inspect the bearing. twenty miles 
later, the train passed another defect detector   that recorded the bearing's temperature at 253 
degrees above ambient (greater than the 200-degree   threshold), triggering an alarm instructing the 
crew to stop the train. but, it was too late. freight trains are equipped with a 
fail-safe braking system powered by   compressed air. there are two main 
connections between cars on a train:   one is the coupler that mechanically joins 
each car, and the other is the air line that   transmits braking control pressure. 
as long as this line is pressurized,   the brakes are released, and the cars are free to 
move. but if one of these air lines is severed,   like it would be during a derailment, the loss of 
pressure triggers the brakes to engage on every   single car of the train. that's what happened 
shortly after that defect detector recorded   the over-temperature bearing. when the defect 
detector notified the crew of an issue, they   immediately applied the brakes to slow the train. 
but before they could reach a controlled stop,   the train's emergency braking system activated. 
a security camera nearby caught this footage   showing significant sparks from what is presumably 
the failing car moments before the derailment.   understanding the severity of the situation, the 
crew immediately notified their dispatcher of the   possible derailment. they applied handbrakes 
to the two railcars at the head of the train,   uncoupled, and moved the two locomotives 
at the head end (and themselves) about a   mile down the line away from the fire and damage, 
not knowing the events that would quickly follow. a train's "consist" defines the collection of 
cars that make it up. 32n's consist included 2   locomotives at the head, a locomotive near the 
center of the train called distributed power,   and 149 railcars. 38 of those 
151 cars had come off the tracks,   forming a burning pile of steel and 
cargo. of those 38 cars that derailed,   11 were carrying hazardous materials including 
isobutylene, benzene, and vinyl chloride.   local fire crews and emergency responders 
worked to put out the fires and address the   immediate threats resulting from the derailed 
cars. but despite the firefighting efforts,   five of the derailed cars transporting vinyl 
chloride continued to worry authorities due   to rising temperatures. norfolk southern 
suspected that the chemical was undergoing   a reaction that would continue to increase 
in temperature and pressure within the tanks,   eventually leading to an uncontrolled explosion 
and making an already bad situation much worse. the cars carrying vinyl chloride 
were dot-105 tank cars. these are   not just steel cylinders on wheels. 
the us department of transportation   actually has very specific requirements for 
tank cars that carry hazardous materials.   dot105 cars have puncture-resistant systems at 
either end to keep adjacent cars from punching   a hole through the tank. they have a thermal 
protection system with insulation and an outer   steel jacket to protect against fires. they 
are tested to pressures much higher than they   would normally see, and they include pressure 
relief devices, or prds, that automatically   open to keep the tank from reaching its bursting 
pressure. the prds on some of the vinyl chloride   cars did operate to limit the pressure inside the 
tanks, but the temperature continued to increase. as fires continued to burn, state and federal 
officials noted the temperature in one of the   vinyl chloride cars was reaching a critical 
level. rather than trust the prds to keep the   tanks safe from bursting, they decided to perform 
a controlled release of the chemical to prevent   an explosion. while they were still making 
the decision, the ohio national guard and the   federal emergency management agency were running 
atmospheric models to estimate the extent of the   resulting plume. local emergency managers used 
these models to evacuate the area most likely   to be affected by the release. on february 
6, crews dug a large trench in the ground,   vented the five vinyl chloride tanks 
into the trench and set the chemical   on fire to burn it off. despite being done on 
purpose to reduce the danger of the situation,   the resulting fireball and pillar of smoke 
have become symbolic of the disaster itself. you might be wondering, like i did, why 
the controlled burn was necessary if the   tank cars were fitted with prds. while the 
ntsb's full report hasn't been released yet,   they have released some details about their 
inspections of the vinyl chloride cars. three   of the cars were manufactured in the 1990s 
with aluminum hatches that cover the valves   (as opposed to the more updated standard 
steel hatches). during the initial fires   and "energetic pressure reliefs", it 
seems that the aluminum may have melted   and obstructed the relief valves, impacting 
their ability to reduce the building pressure. you might also be wondering why a train passing 
through a populated area would be carrying so   much vinyl chloride in the first place. vinyl 
chloride might sound familiar to some of you as   it is the 'vc' in pvc. this channel makes a lot of 
use of pvc demonstrations. it's a material used in   a lot of applications, so we produce it in vast 
quantities, and railways are usually how we move   vast quantities of bulk materials and chemicals. 
but, vinyl chloride is a toxic, volatile,   and flammable liquid, not something you want a 
big pool of near your city, so officials decided   to burn it off. flaring or burning chemicals is a 
pretty common practice for dealing with dangerous   gases or liquids that can't easily be stored. 
it's essentially a lesser evil, a way to quickly   convert a hazardous material to something less 
hazardous or at the very least, easier to dilute. while the byproducts of burning 
vinyl chloride are far from ideal,   combusting it into the atmosphere was 
intended to be a way to quickly address   the concern of it harming people on the 
ground or polluting a larger area. in fact,   the us environmental protection agency flew a 
specially-equipped airplane after the burnoff   to measure chemical constituents of the resulting 
plume. they found low detections of any chemicals   of concern and concluded in their report that the 
controlled burn of the railcars was a success. but "success" is a strong word for an event like 
this, and i might have chosen a different word.   while there were no immediate fatalities 
resulting from the crash, the impacts are   far-reaching. chemical pollutants were not 
only released into the air, but also washed   into local waterways during the firefighting 
efforts. hazardous substances reached all the   way to the ohio river, and the ohio department 
of natural resources estimated that roughly   40,000 small fish and other aquatic life 
were killed in the local creek that flows   away from east palestine. between 
the contamination of water and soil,   it's impossible to say what the long 
term impact on the local ecology will be. as for the residents, both the state and 
federal epas have been heavily involved   in all aspects of the cleanup, monitoring 
air quality and water samples from wells   and the city's fresh water supply. so far, 
they haven't detected any air quality levels   of health concern after the derailment. as for 
the area's groundwater, out of 126 wells tested,   none have shown evidence of significant 
contamination. but as you've seen in some   of my previous videos, it can take a while 
for contamination to move through groundwater. the epa has ordered norfolk southern to 
conduct all cleanup actions associated   with the east palestine train derailment. the 
company itself has pledged to "meet or exceed"   regulatory requirements in regards to the cleanup. 
cleaning up after such a disaster is no easy feat,   from air, water, and soil testing, to disposal 
of huge volumes of contaminated water and soil,   the whole thing is a mess, literally. the cleanup 
is still underway as i'm releasing this video,   but so far they've removed over 5,000 tons 
of contaminated soil and collected about 7   million gallons or 26 million liters of 
contaminated water from rain falling on   the site and washing off trucks working on 
the cleanup. the response has been robust,   but we know how these cleanups can go. the epa's 
list of almost 1,800 hazardous waste sites of   highest priority only has 450 examples of sites 
cleaned up enough to be taken off of the list! the whole situation has also sparked 
policy discussions among several   agencies. the ntsb is opening a special 
investigation into the safety culture   and practices of norfolk southern. 
from congressional testimonials,   to public statements from the department of 
transportation, to political posturing from   a huge variety of public officials, one 
thing seems clear to me: this disaster   will have an impact on the way railroading 
is conducted in america for years to come. the residents of east palestine have a long 
road ahead of them. while all the preliminary   testing so far paints a relatively safe and 
healthy picture of the town after the event,   many have reported symptoms and effects. even if 
there really are no residual compounds present   at dangerous levels, the anxiety and unease of 
living near a high profile chemical spill is   hard to escape. the economic impact of just the 
perception of contamination is also very real,   and things like home values and local agricultural 
businesses have already taken a direct hit. i live   really close to a freight line myself, something 
that is a unique joy for my two-year-old. but now,   when i see those tanker cars roll by, 
i can't stop myself from just wondering   what's inside them and what might happen if 
they came off the rail in my neighborhood. but i also recognize that much of the lifestyle i 
enjoy depends on those trains rolling by my house,   and despite the tragedy of events like 
east palestine, the dot recognizes rail   transportation to be the safest overland method 
of moving hazardous materials. even with the   bulk of hazardous materials being transported 
over rails, highway hazmat accidents result in   more than 8 times as many fatalities! so, freight 
rail isn't going away anytime soon. it's the only   feasible way to move the mountains of materials 
required for all of the industries in the us,   and really, the world. and the fact that 
we rarely have to consider the incredible   engineering details of tanker cars, defect 
detectors, and hazardous material cleanup   operations is a testament to the hard work that 
goes into regulating and operating these lines. but freight rail in the us is unlike any other 
industry. there are only seven companies that   operate class i railroads that make up the vast 
majority of rail transportation in the country.   the us rail market essentially consists of two 
duopolies: csx and norfolk southern in the east   and union pacific and bnsf in the west. that 
gives these companies enormous political power,   as we've seen in recent news. so, we have to ask 
ourselves, are accidents like east palestine,   however rare they may be, just a part of doing 
business, or is there more that can be done? and   i think the answer in this case is clear. 
i expect we'll see some changes to safety   regulations in the future to make sure something 
like this never happens again. and hopefully the   next practical engineering video on railway 
engineering will have a more positive light. speaking of that next episode: if you grew 
around when i did, you might have the same   fondness for the great tv shows that used 
to run on the history channel, discovery,   and the science channel. now those networks 
mostly run reality shows like everything else,   but hopefully you've noticed what's been happening 
with video over the past few years. i won't say   it about myself, but i will say it about my 
fellow content creators: independent producers   like brian from real engineering, sam from 
wendover and half as interesting, reallifelore,   and johnny harris are all making videos that 
are more fascinating and thought-provoking than   any of the old tv shows i miss. sam's series 
extremeties about remote places on earth just   released this incredibly-produced documentary on 
the prudhoe bay oil field in northern alaska. it   goes over the history, logistics, and great 
interviews with people who actually work on   the north slope. that video (along with a ton of 
other great content) is available exclusively on   nebula, the streaming platform built by and for 
independent educational creators, including me. nebula is the answer to the question of 
what could happen if the best channels   on youtube didn't have to cater to an 
ad-supported algorithm, and it just keeps   getting better and better: totally ad-free 
videos from excellent educational channels,   original series and specials that can't 
be found anywhere else, and even classes   from your favorite creators like devin from 
legal eagle and thomas frank. and right now,   you can pay just $30 for an entire year's access 
if you use my link in the description below. my videos go live on nebula the day before they 
come out on youtube, but even if you prefer   to just wait for them here, a nebula subscription 
is the best way to support my channel. if you use   my link, a third of that revenue will go 
directly toward improving the quality and   quantity of practical engineering videos. the rest 
goes toward adding features and improvements to   the nebula platform. if watching videos like 
this one is what you do for fun or to relax,   you should have the best viewing experience on 
the internet, especially when it's practically   free like it is right now at the link below. thank 
you for watching, and let me know what you think!