- am i gonna try (babbling). stop making me do this. wait, this is a child costume. you think i'm a large child, ken? - [ken] i mean, it's very accurate. - hello my friends and
welcome to mystery tech, the most serious tech
review channel on youtube. i'm your host, pikachu, and today we're going to be taking a look at a wide variety of excellent technology that you can purchase at the link in the description. (festive music) i actually got it up a little bit more. you see, i've got a little
bit more space here. i mean, i'm fully crotched out, but. (laughing) - [matt] want some help? (both groaning) - stop, no! (laughing) (yelling) (laughing) ow, oh god. oh, good god, no. - [man] mom, can we get pikachu? we have pikachu at home. (laughing) pikachu at home. - no, don't make me do this. (groaning) oh my god, do i have
to deal with robo lamo in this physical condition? wait, no, no, no. okay, i gotta-- - [ken] do you want strain relief? we can give you a knife. (moaning) - the boys, the boys, man. (sighing) (groaning) - [matt] (yelling) what the? - look man. (laughing) - [matt] why is it my job to look at this? - whoo, whoo. (quirky music) roboraptor, what? why is roboraptor not working? he only works if i hold his button. dude, i'm worried, his power button's like half broken, it just keeps falling down. - [matt] is it because
you keep letting him fall off the table? - letting him? look, roboraptor has a mind of his own. - no, no, no, no, no, no, no. (crashing) - get it, we know! no! okay, well, no don't fall. can we get a piece of
tape to hold his butt, i mean his power button down? i'm worried about the little guy. he's not feeling well. - here, come here, gimme your butthole. gimme your butthole. - nice and tight, nice and tight. - [matt] x marks the spot, buddy. - [austin] josh, you'll
censor this, right? thank you. - [matt] we're censoring this? - so if you watched the
last episode of mystery tech you will be familiar with robo lamo, the robo sapient. unfortunately, everyone forget
to buy batteries for him, so now let's rectify that
and see how robo lamo is. so remind me again why i
should care about robo lamo? - [matt] he dances. - [ken] he's the more popular
version of roboraptor. - how dare you, how dare you? i mean, people like k-pop,
doesn't mean it's superior. - [ken] well... - [matt] i think you just declared war on all of south korea. - it's okay, i'm not
afraid of k-pop stans. - [ken and matt] (groaning) - [ken] don't like that one. (robot vocalizing) - oh, raptor's pissed, man. (robots whirring) (robot vocalizing) that's the noise robo lamo makes? (digital music playing) (robot grunting) (robot yelling) whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! whoa, whoa! dude, what the, no! no! no! stop, he's like beating roboraptor up. roboraptor, what are you doing? - [ken] attack! - just run, do anything! why's he only have one eye on? is he in cyclops mode? or did roboraptor defeat him? we're winning! we beat robo lamo. it was always you, my
friend, it was always you. i never doubted you for a second. (guitar rock music) is there any tech today, or no? - [ken] no. - okay. smart eye care massage, is this just the dumb episode of mystery tech? so this is some korean
powerfly eye massage thing. so if you're a long-time
mystery tech viewer, you may remember an episode
i did with my good friend lamarr where we did the
blomiky eye massager, which was very strange. i'm getting some real
flashback vibes here. this is it, this is what
goes against my eyes. ken, you know if i'm blind, you're out of a job, right? so are we just gonna wing this? - [matt] mm-hm.
- [ken] yeah. - all right, here goes nothing. oh, it may be dead, dude, if it's been sitting here for years. okay so we'll plug it in. dead battery. shall we give this a few minutes to charge and move on to the next stupid item in the stupid episode of stupid tech? - [matt] i got an item that
will help you for that. - you have an item that
will help me for this, okay. wait, matt, is this your item, not ken's? - [matt] mm-hm. - matt, are you trying to tell me you got something for mystery tech? - [matt] i do that sometimes. - wow, i'm impressed, look at that, and you even threw it right. clearly superior and much
better to deal with than ken. okay. (relaxing music) is this you? so our good buddy matt has been doing a lot of
twitch streaming recently and clearly he's been on the merch train. are you gonna pimp your
tee spring right now? - it's very comfy. - i'll be the judge of that. - tee spring, merch matt. - ah, whew, that's actually
pretty comfortable. i'm just gonna take a break. ah! oh matt, you're so comfortable. - [matt] i know. - wait, can you throw
the item to me down here? oh, i like this, okay, excellent. rest of mystery tech on the floor. wait, wait, wait, don't, no, don't. go for it, okay. oh, i got it. okay, this is dumb. this is dumb, i can
already tell this is dumb. simply hold, the world's most
convenient screen holder. so i'll put my simply
hold on my simple leg. (sighing) (groaning) you know, some days mystery tech just goes off the rails and i think that this is one of those days. ow. so, put this on lightly and
then screw this on in here. so if you've ever been like me and didn't want to hold
your phone, well now, simply hold will do it for you. all right, i'm now gonna watch my phone on the simply hold. i gotta say, it's a little bit weird 'cause, like it flexes a lot
based on where your leg is. but this arm is actually pretty sturdy. - [phone] and we put
tech through its paces. and for our tenth episode let's talk about the fifth playstation,
it's playstation 5 time. hey. - hey! aight, this isn't so bad. i mean, i could be sitting here lazily doin' my lazy thing and my
phone can be here, phoning. all i need is the simply
hold and like a controller or something, and i could
just be playin' right here. okay, here's the real
test for the simply hold, will it simply hold my
phone if i try to stand up? - [matt] i mean, it will
simply do something. - [ken] it'll simply hit you in the shin. - all right, three, two, one. oh, that's not so bad. it's a little limp, but it's okay. all right, let's see if i
can make the power fly work. - [matt] if it didn't
charge by now, the battery in there's gonna be like 200 milliamps. - oh, it did something, okay. (device vibrating) the noise makes it so much worse. - [ken] you keep getting notifications. - okay, so in case you're curious, basically, it's just really hot and it's just vibrating my eyelids a lot. - [matt] does it feel relaxing? - no, not particularly. i feel like i'm being
mind controlled right now. jesus christ. ah-ha-ha! whoo! whoo! (device vibrating) - [ken] whoa, what? - it kicked into overdrive, ohh. whew! - [ken] it's still going. all right, so that was on your eyes. - mm-hm. - [ken] all right. - [matt] your brain
would've been scrambled. - [ken] i don't blame
you for taking them off. (perky music) - okay, we have a heavy box. hypervolt. do not tell me you're about to shock me with some stupid bull(beep) ken. do not tell me. oh wait, oh wait, no,
no, no, this is okay. hypervolt, powerful, quiet. the hypervolt delivers
a symphony of power, performance and variability
for anyone looking to warm up and recover faster. the quietest, most advanced
percussion massage device on planet earth. oh, it's a massager. i thought you were
gonna like shock my arms into being stronger or something. i've seen this is the gym. they advertise this at the gym. okay. how expensive is this,
this looks expensive. - [ken] it's around 400 bucks. - whoo, okay. so the only way to
really test if this works is to massage myself, to administer a massage-- - [matt] that sounds worse. - to increase my circulation and loosen my muscles. - [ken] that's still bad. - to accelerate my warm up and recovery. - [ken] yeah, that's a little better. - okay, okay. and then i'm gonna work out, i'm gonna do it again
after and see what happens. (perky music) (device vibrating) whoo! okay. oh! whoa, dude, look at the way it's, whoa! ow-kay. - [ken] not gonna lie, this actually kinda looks cool on camera. - oh yeah, i'm feelin' warm already. - [matt] you shouldn't be feeling warm. - this is great. i love it. okay, how do i turn this off? (device vibrating faster) whoa! - [ken] oh, it's into warp drive. - whoo-hoo! (yelling) oh-ho! - [matt] oh, jesus. - did you try this thing, it's great. dude, like for real, like, oh, ah, whoo. whoo! oh. you know my hands are a
little numb right now, but i think i like it. i'm warmed up. okay, now that my hypervolt is done let's see, let's see how i can
do some jumping jacks here. (jazzy music) - [matt] wow, what a flex! - okay, now, get back to work. well guys, you gotta
work it out now, okay? (jazzy music) oh, you know it goes deep? not a feeling i'm gonna get tired of. oh. (dramatic music) the game boy micro, okay. i mean, obviously, this
is from the japan episode of mystery tech we did,
where we picked out a wide variety of wonderful
things from japan, including the game boy micro with kevin's copy of advance wars. excuse me? what are you, how many, how many... are we about to plug something really dumb into a game boy? - [ken] we're gonna try to play ps4 on the game boy. - that sounds like a great title. (japanese music playing) i feel like after we built
the ultimate game cube, i'm like, this is like peak adapter and cables that we're gonna have, but no, this is worse. it's definitely worse. let me walk you through
our cabling solution. so first of all, i'm going to plug in our playstation 4. from the playstation 4
pro we have an hdmi cable going into our hdmi to av adapter. from here, we have the
rca connector coming, goes into a male-to-male,
which then goes into our t.v. tuner, which is being plugged in and is connected via a game boy micro. so, theoretically, if i turn on the playstation and all of this works, then i will have an upside down ps4 screen on the game boy. okay. i do need to, wait, the flaw with this, power is on the bottom on the game boy, so i need to turn it
on and then plug it in, which will not work. this will not work. - [ken] it so happened
that it disappeared. - oh, it did work, never mind. i just plugged it in really fast. okay, so i got weird things on it. it looks very bizarre. i'll make sure all my
connections are here. tell me if you see anything
coming up on the display, but this doesn't look promising. oh, mm, oh, well, wait. - [ken] that's playstation-esque. - [austin] playstation-esque? - [ken] oh, we cut. - [austin] oh, it works. it works! i can see the playstation
logo on the game boy. you can't see that, 'cause
it's the world's tiniest thing. here. - [matt] guess what just died? - [ken] no, no, just, yeah. - [austin] did the camera just die? ken, did you forget to change the battery on the camera? as soon as the ps4 works the camera, like, i'm talking to the camera right now and it's blank. josh, you have to cut to the blank camera and go, look over here. now that ken has replaced
the battery in the camera, and so we actually can see again, let's take a look at how this works. so, it's small and not very good, but technically i do actually see the playstation interface. well, okay, i'll say, latency
doesn't feel horrible. i mean that is definitely
the playstation interface. mind you, it is jittery and very small, but i can technically see. so if we were back in 2003,
this would work really well with the original game boy advance. not only would it go in the opposite way and you'd be able to close it up, but you also could take
advantage of the t.v. tuner to see t.v. instead, t.v. tuners
are no longer functional until you're swapped over to digital, which means that we
have to rely on the av in. but through this ridiculous
series of adapters, i can play battlefront now. dude, this works. i just crashed. i'm dead. yeah, there we go. you know what, that
latency is actually like surprisingly not the worst
thing i've ever experienced. the problem is that the
screen is incredibly tiny and so lo-res that i
really can't read anything besides the very biggest text. but, i mean technically, this works. i'm definitely playing
ps4 on game boy right now. i'm not sure why you would
wanna do such a thing, but look at this, i'm
flying through the canyon. hey, i'm playing
battlefront on my game boy. new mind. what is my new mind? is this a hot wheel? what are these wheels, how are
they even supposed to roll? this is not a phone, is it? no. (gasping) it's a phone! what? so i was tripped out 'cause look
at how tiny these wheels are, like it just, this weird little car. but we have a little camera on the back, we have a micro usb, you open it up and it's the new mind phone. yeah, yeah, no, yeah, he's still here, but it's okay, i'm sure
he'll be gone tomorrow and you can take his place. sorry it's not a paid position, but if you're good at
throwing mystery tech items on the table, i think you
should be in good shape. did you just give me your car key? - [ken] no. - ken, why does this say scion on it? ken, what's this for? this has the word scion on it and i know for a fact that neither you nor anyone in this office owns a scion. - [matt] that's not true at all. - [ken] it's not a-- - please illuminate me. - [ken] it's our scion. (key chain jingling) - did you buy a (beep) car, ken? - [ken] the dealership take am ex. - (muffled screaming) (muffled screaming) (muffled screaming) (footsteps) are you? - [ken] yeah. (circus organ music) - did you really buy
the world's tiniest car for mystery tech? dude, a dent right here, you realize. did you dent the car, you
didn't even realize that? what about this? - [ken] that one i
knew, it came with that, it came with that. - but you dented the car already? - [ken] no, i didn't. i did not realize that was there. (circus organ music) - it has a back seat. (laughing) - [ken] oh yeah, man. for you and your friends. (laughing) your one, short friend. - ken, how much did you spend on a scion iq for mystery tech? - [ken] $7,000. (cash register ringing) (circus organ music) - actually, that's pretty nice, though. oh. - [ken] it's tiny. - there's actually, there's
actually a lot of room in here. (motor starting) (circus organ playing) (horn beeping) (circus organ music) - [ken] yeah? (circus organ music) - back seat with you. - [ken] back seat? - back seat. - [ken] there? oh there, dude, that's,
i can't even, okay. - you can do that. - okay, oh boy, oh right, let's go. oh, god, jesus christ. (seat scraping) oh, whoa, my feet. my feet are there, under the chair. (motor revving)
(tires squealing) whoa! (laughing) - i'm gonna make you regret this. (crowd yelling) oh, this turning circle, though. (tires squealing) dude! (laughing) okay, this is actually
not the worst idea ever. - [ken] wait, hold on, hold
on, here, hold the camera. - yeah, i gotcha, i gotcha. - [ken] this is actually kinda sick. - [austin] don't get out the window, what are you doing? - yo, this is actually-- - don't get out the window! - okay, okay. - so next time on mystery tech we do something with the car, or-- - [ken] no, not mystery tech. - next time on some video in the future, we do something with the car. (motor revving) (upbeat music) it's a dead end that way. (motor revving)