- very excited, i can already
see some of the lights. alright, here we go. - oh, man. oh, the reveal! whoa! that's crazy. today, we are tackling the
army west point system. i mean, seriously, check this thing out. it took a lot of time
and energy to get right and here's how we did it. but how are we gonna
actually make this o11 mini look like a proper army west point system? - well, so we're gonna be
taking a lot of inspiration from actually the design and architecture of west point, itself. - which looks like a castle. - it does. it's basically built like a fortress. the aesthetic that we're
going for is something strong. west point has a lot of
that stone architecture with, you know, a little
bit of detail around the top and that copper roofing. - the big challenge going into
the system really is going to be making sure that the
aesthetic is on point. i mean, if you look at west point, it really does look like a fortress. there are hundreds of years
of history in this place. so, i wanna make sure that
we actually can do something that will do it really
justice, but this is not the easiest thing to do when
you're building a gaming pc. so for the components, we're
going with about as high-end as we can get at the moment. so on the cpu side for this
system, we are going intel. so this is the core i9-10900k. we also have an rtx 3090 from msi. now, we will be water cooling the system. however, the main snag has
been that we actually don't have our hands on a block
for this rtx 3090 yet. the one thing i definitely wanna call out is the wd black an1500 ssd. now, this is not something we
would typically use, right? our motherboard has plenty of slots for like an m.2 ssd, we can load it up. however, one of the very specific things that the west point team asked
was to have a lot of space. so some of the actual things
that we'll be running on this, specifically, one of those simulations is like three and a half terabytes. should we start tearing the
chassis down and seeing like kind of like what it's going to look like? - so one of the cool parts
about all the lian li systems is that they tend to be fairly modular, - yes. - which means that at least when it comes to modifying things or mounting stuff, it's not a crazy ton of work to get there. but i think we can actually
dress up the glass a little bit. so one of the cool design
elements of west point is they have these giant,
like arching windows, a better placed into
their stone architecture. so what i was thinking is either engraving or maybe even custom black
vinyl going on the inside there. so it's almost like a
silhouette of the window shapes. you're kind of looking
through these windows to the system inside. - okay, that will be cool. walk me through the piles of pavers. so these are literally,
are these like meant for like models or something? - yeah, they're actually
mostly meant for dollhouses. that's at least how they're advertised. - are you trying to
tell me you're building a gaming pc for the army, - no. using dollhouse components? - no, i'm building a gaming
dollhouse for west point. - wait, hold on, hold on, hold on. do you know how heavy that's gonna be? what happens when this
whole piece of glass just comes flying down because
it weighs a hundred pounds? - you think that this is
gonna weigh a hundred pounds? - it will weigh 15 pounds. - pick all that up. - oh, it's super light. oh, okay. dollhouse, i get it. all right. let's build a pc. hopefully, it comes out good. - i'm going to be taking all
of these little tiny pavers and we're going to begin
covering the whole front of this to make a little brick wall. you want a sample of what
it's gonna look like? it's an exclusive. for right here, we've done the test layout for the brick wall. you can see, i keep it under my sandbags that way it doesn't go anywhere. i've measured out the
size here on the cardboard that this front panel is so
you can imagine, you know, kind of tiling them across like that. (languid music) (trap music) - so it is time to get some
actual pc building done. ooh, look at that! now that! that actually looks pretty cool. so this is, of course, the z490, specifically the tough variant which i'm again, mostly
thinking it looks cool but also should give a solid performance. so we did opt to go for the
full atx layout of the system. now, there are a couple
of other configurations that we could have gone
for with this, specifically when it comes to the slots, you can do three five or
seven slots in the back. now that would've given us
more room and to be fair, we'll have to measure to see
what the actual clearance for the fans is gonna look like. but because the only
things really installing in the pci slots are the graphics card. and it's gonna be the actual ssd. we're gonna have all of this space here so we can easily add fans to the bottom and it shouldn't really
cause us any issues. all right. well, i think we can actually
just start getting to build. we may not have some of our components but at least we can
start test-fitting things and seeing the rough run of where the water cooling components will live when we receive them. (mellow music) okay, so we have our motherboard,
cpu, ram, as well as ssd at least temporarily installed. now there's one interesting
thing about the o11 mini and that while it will fit in atx board, it actually doesn't technically fit it. because if you look on the
side, it actually overhangs. so what essentially is gonna happen here is that we're actually
going to run our cables behind the motherboard. so it is missing a couple of screws which honestly should be
fine even with the 3090 but since our cables
are actually gonna come out behind the board and we'll
just wrap them around here. and so- (trap music) - why does this say one terabyte? we ordered the four terabyte
version of this, right? says one terabyte on the box, too. did i ordered? (playful music) (high pitch noise) - look at that. so you ordered the four terabyte ssd and they gave us the one terabyte. great! nothing like when we have
no time to finish a build and components are not showing up and are showing up incorrectly. so you eagle eye viewer probably noticed the one terabyte logo on
the ssd that we opened. however, after staring at it and all of us in the office playing with it
for multiple moments of time, no one noticed it. so that's great. we can still do a quick test fit but we got to get this ship
back and get the replacement, asap! (drilling noises) - [wes] hello? - we are making progress. - [wes] good, i have some good news. - oh, is that our side panel? - [wes] this is our side panel. - oh, yo! that looks really cool! - dude, check that out. isn't it sick? - that looks so cool. so we've got a usaa. we've got the logo as well
as duty, honor, country and'02's when west point was built? - was founded, built. yes, somewhere in there. it's a very important date. the fact that we can now
laser etch these side panels takes these builds up to another level. this side panel looks sick. like, it just looks amazing. like it is nice and in your face and i think it's going to
be super well complimented by the framing of the stonework around it. i'm just crazy excited to
get started on the stonework. - now, of course, this
project is sponsored by our friends over at usaa. now, if you don't know, usaa is a member-owned
financial services company that offers insurance products
for the military community and their eligible family members. they also sponsor the athletic departments of the three military academies
that we're building pcs for. now, i have family in the military and a lot of them do rely
on usaa every single day. so if you're interested,
definitely be sure to check them out at the link
in the video description. all right. how is the army usaa
build looking, my friend? - it is looking very good. so we haven't made a
crazy amount of progress. it's just a lot of prep
work to get us situated for doing our water cooling run later. it's a lot of the little things like getting our power supply
in, running all the power, but i'm taking the approach
of actually going neat from the start, as opposed
to what we normally do which is just kind of plug
everything in, check everything and then do the cable management later. i want to see about doing it this way mainly because this
already looks very clean - [austin] yeah. and i want to continue that streak. so, in a build like this that is slightly smaller
form factor, size matters. - [austin] it always matters, ken. - it always matters. so what i found was this cpu block that also acts as a reservoir. so it's an all-in-one set up so we don't need to
have another tank here. it is actually just as
space-saving as you can get. this is actually made for really small form
factor like mini itx builds that won't have any space for a reservoir. we do have a little bit here, - [austin] a little bit, yeah. - but i want to use this
free space to give us a little leeway for our water cooling run. and then tomorrow, we'll
actually do the real thing - [austin] the real thing! - the real thing! - all right, we are making
good progress on the build. so today, ken was able to do some more of the cable management. we now have all three of our eight pins for the 3090 plugged in. we also ran a couple of
ll120's on the bottom. so we have a long discussion about how we want it to do the airflow. one of the issues we're gonna have here is actually the amount of cooling that we're gonna get out the top. we could build it in a manner that would give us a little bit of airflow but honestly, it's not gonna be a lot. so realistically, we're
just gonna go ahead and seal up the top. - sealing up the top honestly
makes my job a lot easier. not only do i not have to
implement any sort of riser there to let air flow come in or out at the top but the top roofing detail can
actually be right up against or at least very close to the stonework on the side panel and the front. i hope that doesn't become so hot that all of my adhesives starts melting but, you know, that's
not really my department. so you just kinda pass it all off. - when doing these custom pc builds, we're finding that a lot of
the times with aesthetics, we need to compromise somewhere. so what we're doing is we
have a rear fan as an intake and we have our radiator out the back that will spit all of the
hot air out of the system, which i think should be fine, hopefully. we'll see. - all right. now, let's fire up the system and hope that everything works
cause i will tell you what, if our processor but its
specifically, if that graphics card is not 100% functional right
now, we are in deep trouble. we probably should have waited
or we shouldn't have waited. i'm sure we'll be fine. i'm sure it'll be fine. why would, why stress
when you can just pretend everything's fine and
it'll work out just fine. alright, so we've got
ourselves all 32 gigs of our corsair memory showing up. obviously, one fan connected
and then we've got our 10900k, everything seems to be
fine, so, okay, cool. i feel good at this point that
we can shut the system down, tear it apart cause we need
to pull out the motherboard and start on our water cooling. - the wonderful thing about the way we're doing water
cooling in this army build is that it's actually
not that complicated. our cpu block, that is
also our pump and reservoir from barrow, actually
does a lot of the legwork both in footprint and it
makes our run pretty simple. i mean, there's still gonna
be some weirder tubing runs with this, especially
with how big our gpu is. i mean, obviously, we'll
see with water cooling and especially with how
newbie we are with this. it can be a little hit or miss and we're always learning
stuff along the way, but i think it should be fine. (trap music) (marching music) - [austin] oh, what a cool walk-in. look at these guys. - all right, guys. this is the moment we've been waiting for. very excited, i can already
see some of the lights. all right, here we go. let me not mess this up. whoa! that's crazy. yeah, i feel like i'm in my
barracks building right now. - oh, man. this is great. - it's yellow. - yeah, black and gold. - can we pop this thing open? open the, - if you want to, i don't know how. (laughing) - [camera man] 32 gigs of
ram, four terabyte ssd, and the 3090. - oh my god. - 3090?! - look, everyone's excited about the 3090 - austin, honestly been a
really big fan for a long time, and see this come to fruition
is just absolutely unreal. the fact is that this
pc represents not only like what we are as a
club, but the history of west point and the people
that stand behind us as well. so we really appreciate
being able to embody all of that support. you know, it really is a
piece of work, a piece of art. (laughing) - it's a piece of work. (laughing) it was so cool to be
able to build a gaming pc for the future leaders of the military. i'm so grateful for all
the work that you guys do that hopefully, this is one
small token of thank you. you're able to get many
good years of gaming at it. - of course, this army build was the first of three usaa builds that we're doing. and i'm really happy we
started with this one because i think that we have some crazy, crazy ideas coming up too. and i'm super excited to work out all of the challenges and
interesting unique designs that wes has because you know that they're gonna be crazy because, wes is crazy.