hi everyone, in this video we'll be looking
at the kinematic, or suvat equations, starting with what they are and how they are used,
and ending with how they can be derived. there will be 2 more episodes after this, showing
how to solve slightly more complex problems, such as calculating how long it will take
for an object to catch up to a moving target; and calculating the velocity required to shoot
a ball through a hoop. for now, consider this red dot as it moves
from point a to b. there are five main things we can list about its motion: it's overall
change in position - in other words, displacement, which let's pretend is 8 metres to the right;
then there's the time it takes to travel between the two points, which here is 2 seconds; the
object's initial velocity, which here is 1 metre per second; its final velocity, which
is 7 metres per second; and its acceleration, which is 3 metres per seconds per second. when writing the equations, displacement is
usually denoted by the letter s; initial velocity by 'u', final velocity by 'v', acceleration
by 'a', and time by 't'. as you can see, these variables form the acronym suvat. so each of the suvat equations uses a different
combination of four out of these five variables. thus, as long as we know the values for any
three of them, we can use the equations to calculate the unknowns. it's important to
note that these equations are only applicable to objects moving with constant acceleration,
and in a straight line. let's do an example. say we're making a video
game, and we want our character to be able to jump a certain height. the first thing
we need to do is decide which direction is positive. i'm going to say that upwards motion
is positive, and downwards motion is negative. thus if we want our character be able to jump,
say, three metres high; then the displacement from the ground to the apex of the jump will
be positive 3 metres. we also need to choose a value for the acceleration due to gravity
in this imaginary game world. i'll pick 20 metres per second squared, and this is downwards,
so that value will be negative. the question is now, what must the initial
velocity of the character be in order to reach a height of 3 metres. remember that we need
three pieces of information in order to calculate the unknown, so we need to find one more known
value. as it happens, we know the final velocity here, since at the very peak of the jump the
character will be moving neither up nor down, and so we can say that the final velocity
is zero. now we just need to find the equation that uses the four variables we're interested
in, which are (s,u,v, and a). as you can see, the only equation that has this combination
is number 5. we're trying to find initial velocity, so lets rearrange this with initial
velocity on the left hand side. we can then substitute in the values we know, to get u
squared = 120. we then take the square root of both sides, to get u = 10.95. now that
we now the initial velocity, we can make the character jump the height we wanted. so a lot of the time it's really going to
be that simple. you'll have three known values, and you just plug them into an equation to
find the fourth. for the rest of this video we're going to be looking at how these equations
are derived. speed is a measure of how far an object travels
in a given amount of time. you're no doubt familiar with the equation "speed equals distance
over time". since velocity is just speed with a direction, we change the wording to "velocity
equals displacement over time". and of course, if we consider that the object may be accelerating,
then we must say "average velocity equals displacement over time". the average of two
numbers is just both of them added together, and then divided by 2. so, average velocity
- or, (vi + vf)/2 - is equal to d/t. if we substitute in our variable names, this
is actually one of our kinematic equations, although its usually re-arranged by multiplying
both sides by time, to get it in the form: d = (vi+vf)/2 * t. acceleration is a measure of how much velocity
changes over time. since we're assuming constant acceleration, we can say that acceleration
is simply equal to the change in velocity over time. which we can rewrite as acceleration
= (final velocity - initial velocity), over time. if we substitute in our variable names,
we have our second kinematic equation, although usually it's re-arranged, by multiplying both
sides by time, and then adding initial velocity to both sides, to get final velocity = initial
velocity + acceleration * time. the remaining three equations are derived
by combining these first two in different ways. so, for example, we can replace the final
velocity in the first equation with what we calculated final velocity to be in the second.
the two u's add together to make 2u, and then if we perform the multiplication by t we get
2ut + at^2, all over two. simplifying this leaves us with displacement = initial velocity
* time + acceleration*time squared/2. that's the third equation. lets now rearrange the second equation to
solve for initial velocity. we substitute that into the first, and simplify in the same
way as the previous one, this time to get displacement = final velocity * time - acceleration
* time squared/2. this is the fourth equation. for the final equation, we will rearrange
the second equation to solve for time, and plug that into the first equation. note that
the top part is a difference of squares, so when we multiply out we'll get s = v^2 - u^2/2a.
this is usually rearranged by multiplying both sides by 2a, and then adding u^2 to both
sides to end up with: final velocity squared = initial velocity squared + 2*acceleration
* displacement. which, of course, is what we used to solve the jumping problem. alright, i hope you found this video helpful,
make sure to check out the following two episodes for some more complex problems. until then,
cheers.