this is the largest shredder
in the world, and this lamborghini
is going to fall in it. we're also nuking
an entire life size village, shooting real tanks
at a literal lamborghini, and crushing this store
with the world's largest domino. this is the first
of many experiments. you're going to love this video.
you ready? - ready!
- this is going to be crazy. all right.
they're falling. come on. all right, it's working. it's actually working. are we going to have to run? you hear the thud? oh, it's going. all right, that was the tallest
domino in the world. that was the new tallest domino
in the world. down goes the domino! oh, my god! that was insane! - that was crazy!
- we were way too close! this isn't even the coolest thing
we're doing in this video. we're detonating the biggest
explosion in youtube history, launching a rollercoaster
off its track, and so much more! let's go to the next experiment. we got a lot of experiments today. and up next, we're going to destroy
an entire village with a massive creeper explosion. and just for reference, a human sized version
looks like this. - oh!
- oh, okay. but we're going to be detonating
one 50 times bigger steve, somehow you survived
the last creeper. this one... i'm not quite sure
you're going to survive. we don't believe steve's
going to make it? oh, heck no. even though this is 50 times bigger,
it has 200 times the tnt. bye, steve. - okay, let's head in the bunker.
- all right, steve. let's send steve into the abyss. just so you know
how big this creeper is, steve is actually taller than me. - he's getting close.
- we're in the green zone. this is going to be
a massive explosion. it's getting closer, any second now. i don't know
when it's going to happen. oh, i'm scared. oh, my gosh. - oh, my god.
- i'm speechless, for once. i'm still processing that. - that was insane.
- how are we allowed to do this? - we live in a country called america.
- go, america. if you thought that was cool,
i got news for you. it's about to get a whole lot cooler.
for our next experiment, i bought another lamborghini. - adam, this is your lamborghini.
- thank you. and you're probably wondering,
though, what's the catch? yes. that's exactly
what i'm wondering. how do i put this? recently, i may have obtained
a military grade tank. in exactly three days, i'm going to be raining
missiles on your new car. and you get to use my credit card to spend as much money
as you want trying to defend it. if the lamborghini survives,
you have a brand-new car. i'm going to spend whatever
it takes to defend this lambo. that's why i gave you my card. okay, fine. i'm going to do it. a lot of things racing
in my mind right now, but it's simplified into stop shell,
win lambo. adam's first move was to call
a construction crew to bring in building materials
and help him set up his first wall. i'm going to want all the walls
to kind of be a foot over my head. that'll at least protect
the direct shots on the lambo. now for the second part of my process,
it's going to be the pool. there was a mythbusters episode where they were
shooting rounds into a pool, so that should stop
the velocity heavily. adams got a lot of work ahead of him
to keep his lambo from danger. and speaking of danger, we bought the world's
most dangerous roller coaster. and if you're
wondering why it's dangerous... basically, i put bombs on the ride. in theory, if you were to ride
this roller coaster, you should get launched off this rail. the only question is
where would you land? let's see how far it goes
when it gets launched off it. and obviously, before we launch it,
we're going to put mannequins on it. everyone, put your mannequin
where you want. he's got a good head on his shoulders. and the final touch. push! as hard as you can! - all right, get out of the way.
- go! go! go! all right, there it is. this thing's going fast. all right. now, it's going
to come down and go off the ramp. here it goes. go, go, go. all right.
hold up, hold up, hold up. oh, that actually scared me. to be honest,
i thought it would go further. that was cool and all. let's do that again. but with an explosive in the cart. inside these boxes,
there's dozens of pounds of tnt. when we're done pushing,
run to the bunker. you don't have to tell me to do that. go, go, go, go. we're going. all right, i'm running. go, guys. go! - go quicker.
- go, go, go, go, go! oh, my gosh! - get inside.
- it's going down! that was awesome! it might not have flown 100 feet,
but at least we blew it up. but that explosion
is literally nothing compared to what you're
about to see. for the next experiment,
we have three safes, one that costs $1,000, $10,000, and finally, the $100,000 safe. it's bigger than me. and we're going to see
how many explosives they can resist. these are actual explosives. why is chandler bringing them in? he's my dealer. - okay.
- carefully set it down. i know this doesn't look like a lot,
but this is $1,000. for however much
we spent on each safe, we spent the same amount on tnt. and we're going to see who wins
this $1,000 safe or $1,000 in explosives. i'm going to put an egg
inside the safe. let's see if it turns
into scrambled eggs. usually during explosives,
we have a wireless switch. this time, it's hardwired. why? that actually scared me. well, the egg in the safe
literally don't exist anymore. let's try this again with 10 times the explosives
and a safe 50 times stronger. no joke, this thing has three-inch-thick steel. grab a crate of explosives. this is like explosive jenga. oh, my gosh. we're like putting presents
around a christmas tree. the last egg did not survive. let's see if a $10,000 safe
can protect it. is this safe
really worth ten grand if it can't protect an egg from tnt? i don't know
if safes are meant to stop tnt. - this button is hot.
- you want to hit it? i do. 3, 2, 1, go! oh! - what? oh, my...
- bro. the next one is supposed
to be 10 times bigger. than that one, which was ten times
bigger than the previous one. oh, my god.
he put a divot in the ground. yo, can you guys believe nolan's
mom fell right here? oh, my god. it broke the glass
on the hundred thousand safe. in hindsight, i should've
put the safes further apart. ever since we were born,
we've always wondered if you put $100,000 worth
of explosives around $100,000 safe, would it protect an egg? the age-old question. you're in luck
because i'm about to answer it. so heavy! this safe is now surrounded
by $100,000 in explosives? you could say it's unsafe now. out of every explosion
we've ever done, what you're about to see
is the biggest by far.  our videos have gone so crazy
that people think we fake them. this is a real explosion. three, two, one. i don't even have any words. - we woke up everybody in the city.
- everybody in the entire state. let's see if the egg survived.
oh, my gosh. bro, the back of the safe is gone. bro, it broke the foundation. it's all cracked in the floor. it seems like they
put all their effort in the 37,000 pound door
and not the walls of the safe. and the egg did not survive. if you ever want to rob a bank, just buy a hundred grand worth of tnt. in the meantime, adam had been going
all night building his structure. it's like 2:00 a.m.,
still so hot out here. and when i came back in the morning, i noticed he had some
pretty interesting ideas for it. adam!
what am i looking at? scrapyard had a lot of cars, i'm going to have at least
two layers of cars and i'm probably going to stack them. the real secret is i'm going to be
using the engine block to stop it, that should give it
more stopping power than just the side of a vehicle. so far, adam has
two cinder block walls, two layers of stacked cars
and three pools full of water, all just to protect
this lamborghini from the tank's shot. what do you think the odds are
that the lambo survives? that lambo's mine, baby.
we're going to get it done. but i wasn't about to go easy on it, so we brought in extra support
for tomorrow. boys! bring them in! oh, my gosh. jimmy. now that we brought in two more tanks,  the lambo will be
targeted from all sides. adam doesn't stand a chance. you have a little less
than 24 hours left. good luck, adam. you're going to need it. all jokes aside,
i am actually stressed out about that if i'd known there were
going to be three tanks, i would've strategized
completely different. while you're building,
we're going to go test the tanks. oh, great. thanks. kris. do you want to do the honors? - yeah.
- too bad. the test we built consists
of a hundred pound safe, a trampoline
and bulletproof glass. but... did it go through it? oh, i can literally see through it
from back here. this is the weakest
of the three tanks. adam is screwed. while adam was wrapping up
his protection for his lamborghini, we're going to throw one
into a shredder. and to show you
how powerful it is, i'm going to shred
some other stuff first. - karl, send it.
- here we go! yeah. let's see what happens. oh, yeah! that is so awesome! that doesn't sound like piano noises. yeah! i think we need to wash down
that piano. i agree.
send the coke. i'm 99% sure these are going
to blow up. oh, there it goes! and while we're doing this, i want to tell you guys
about creator league. it's a gaming league brought to you
by efuse and eight of the biggest
gaming entertainers in the world. it's like having a front row
season ticket, but you're not just watching. you're actively drafting teams, changing strategies
and sharing in the reward. oh, my god. up next, we have
a hershey's vending machine. i'll do you guys a favor
by getting rid of it. there it goes. there goes the hershey's. is it stuck? turns out not even this
massive shredder can digest hershey's. when you purchase
a creator league pass, you're able to influence the league, compete at weekly tournaments,
win prizes, and potentially even meet
some of your favorite influencers. and if you sign up in
the next seven days, you'll receive a free box
of feastables. i'm grabbing the porta potty. who taught kris how to use this stuff? creator league gives you full control
over what games creators play. kris, drop it! who's on each team, what are the rules,
and so much more. oh, it smells. we've been in this junkyard
for 10 hours, and even i took a
poop in that earlier. one creator pass equals
one vote, and you have full influence over almost everything
they do in the league. click the link in the description
down below and sign up for creator league
right now. while we clean out this shredder
to get it ready for the lamborghini, we're going to go shoot
another one with tanks. and things aren't looking good
for adam. because he was running
into a ton of problems on his last night of filming. we're hitting some issues.
we need some things. nothing's open, not being able
to get enough resources. this is my last bricks. i can't believe we even
got these done. three tanks is just impossible. i got to work through
the rest of the night. i wouldn't forgive myself
if i went to sleep now. adam. hi, jimmy. please tell me
you're not still building. can i get five more hours? over the last 24 hours. adam has managed
to stash 20 more cars, build four more walls to the sides, and he also put two more giant pools. but you went out of your way
to build this pool, but didn't fill it up. yup. i ran out of time to fill it up. you should learn time management. yes, i should. noticing a lot less cars over here. yeah. oh, i see you put sand in here. does it make it harder to push over? it'll be fine, bro, do you just not want the lambo? it's going to work. okay. this might be the last time
we see this lamborghini in one piece. stay strong. i'll be back soon. and i've obtained 20 real tank shells. don't ask me how. and we're not going to stop firing
until we use all of them. the boys are loading the tanks. this is going to be awesome. - why is mine so small?
- you know why. the moment of truth. are you ready? three, two, one. oh. one of my pools. we got a pool. no, no, no. our first shot literally
hit the pool in front of the lambo. the water poured everywhere. how much water did you put in those pools? oh, this is gross. fire in the hole! oh, my god. i'm still holding out faith. hey, this one at the same time. - all three.
- oh, my god. three, two, one. adam's walls make it impossible
to see the lamborghini from here. so until we run out of ammo, we have no idea if
his car made it or not. - i felt that one.
- yeah, this is not good. reload the tanks. kris. karl. nolan. your defense is not holding up there. this is not good. i'm kind of grasping the straws
at this point. i've done all i can do. fire in the hole. i have way too much power. i was so confident today too. i love how is just rapid-fire tanks
right now. my only hope is that they're missing. anyways, what were you saying?
last shot. adam, this time
you don't get a choice. - you have to pull.
- if imma go down, imma go down looking like a g. all right. oh, he's running! adam's car, it's done for. i can't see. i can't see. let's go! come on! wait. are there no holes in it? - man, let's go baby!
- you did it! what's crazy is, even though the cars aren't strong enough
to stop the rounds, they were able to deflect them away from the lamborghini. - there's a bullet in the pool.
- oh, my god. there's a bullet in the pool. the pool right
in front of the lamborghini, caught a bullet for you. thank you, mythbusters. i owe you this,
but imma keep the lambo. oh, my gosh. oh, will he fit? hey, he fits! hey, we're gonna make it work. that's fine.
we're gonna make it work. congratulations on the lambo. let's go shred another one. and now, the moment you savages
have been waiting for. this hunk of metal is going
in the world's largest shredder. - is it time?
- it's time! let's drop it. karl, are you ready? - ready!
- send the lamborghini! this suspense is killing me. - oh, my god.
- it's hanging over the edge! oh, my god! there it goes. lamborghini versus
the world's largest shredder. it's about to... oh! yeah! look at it.
it looks like it's dancing. this is the coolest
thing i've ever seen bro, our building's shaking. oh. the car's fighting back. i think we need to push it down. it's stuck in the lamborghini tires, so the crane's going to push it down. whoa. yeah! shred the car. shred the car. it's doing it. oh, my god. all right. and that is what a shredded
lamborghini looks like. don't worry, it didn't work.
it was decommissioned. subscribe, because we have
some insane videos coming up, and i'd hate for you
to miss them. see you later.