hi everyone. quite often we need to access information
in one script from another script, or we need something happening in one script to trigger
a method in the other script. let's look at a simple example where we have
a player script, and a userinterface script. say the player script has a health variable,
and the ui script wants to access this variable so that it can display a health bar. we'll
need to get a reference in the ui class to the player script. there are several ways
to do this. for example, if we know the name of the object that the player script is attached
to in the scene, we could use the gameobject.find("") method. we would pass the name of the object
into the method, and it would return a reference to that gameobject. then, by using the getcomponent
method, we could get the attached player script. similiarly, if we add a player tag to the
player object, we could instead find the object with gameobject.findobjectwithtag(""); the
most straightforward way, however, would be to use the findgameobjectoftype method, and specify
player as the type. this will search the scene for the object to which the player script
is attached, and return a reference to that instance of the player script. once we
have a reference to the player using any of the above methods, we can access its public health variable, and use this value
to draw the health bar. all right, so that's simple enough; let's
look at another case. say that inside the player's update method, we have a check to
see if the health variable has fallen below zero, at which point the player script will
destroy the object it is attached to. now the player's death obviously signals the
end of the game, so we want the ui script to be notified when the player dies so that
it can display the words game over on the screen. we could start by creating a gameover
method in the ui class to write these words, but this method still needs to be called from
somewhere. the simplest solution would be to get a reference
to the ui class inside of the player script, just before the object is destroyed. this
reference could then be used to call the ui's gameover method, which would of course then
need to be made public. so this approach works fine, but it's not
really a great solution. to understand why, let's consider the relationship between the
player class and the ui class. the ui class is responsible for displaying information
about the player, so it makes sense that the ui class has a reference to the player. however,
the player class shouldn't really have to care about the existence of the ui class. put another way, if we were to delete the
player class from the project, it makes sense that the ui script would no longer work - its
purpose was to display information about the player, and the player no longer exists. however,
if we keep the player class and instead delete the ui class, it is bizarre that the player
class should no longer work, just because the ui has disappeared. with that in mind, let's look at events. events
are actually a relatively advanced topic, and we'll be exploring them in some depth
later on. i think it's an important concept to be aware of from the beinning though, so
i'm just going to show you enough to solve this basic problem. in the player class, i'll start by importing
the system namesapce, which will give us access to a thing called an action. we can now create
a public event action, and call it onplayerdeath; when the player is about to die, we can invoke
the action, as though it were a method, simply by writing its name followed by parentheses.
now for the interesting part. inside the ui class, our reference to the player gives us
access to the onplayerdeath event. we can now write player.onplayerdeath += gameover;
this is called subscribing the gameover method to the onplayerdeath event. what happens now is that when onplayerdeath
is invoked, all methods that have been subscribed to the event will be called. in this case
that's just the gameover method. what's great about this is that the player
doesn't care who, if anyone, is subscribed to the event. it is just responsible for triggering
the event at the appropriate moment. so, if we now imagine that we delete the ui class,
the player class still works fine, it never knew about the ui's existence in the first
place. there is one small thing we have to be careful
of though. if nothing is subscribed to an event, then the event will be null. this means
that if we try to invoke it, it will cause an error. to prevent this, we simply add an
if statement checking that the event is not null, before we invoke it. alright, so hopefully you have a picture now
of the two main ways in which we can have classes interact with one another. either
by a direct reference, or with the help of an event.
until next time, cheers.