(lex flipping) - that was intense. this video is a judo training session with travis stevens from a while back. he's a 2016 olympic
silver medalist in judo, and one of the greatest
american judoka ever. i've trained judo and
jujitsu for many years, and took some time off on the judo side, focusing more on submission
grappling than throwing. but i'm hoping to get back
into it with jimmy pedro, the legendary judo coach out in boston. i love judo too much. i miss it. big thank you to craig
jones and the b team for letting us use their
gym for this judo session. and i should also say
that austin, in general, is amazing for martial arts. we've got 10th planet with gabe tuttle, new wave with john danaher, gordon ryan, nicholas meregali, and others. b team with craig jones,
nikki rod, nikki ryan, and others, and many more. i highly recommend you
check out these places, and who knows? maybe you'll see me there, and we get a chance to train. and now, dear friends, here's the 2016 olympic
silver medalist in judo, travis stevens. - i've been a fan of
yours for a long time. thank you for talking a little
judo with me today, man. spread the knowledge, here we go. - my goal is to make you go up, and then i'm gonna go under, and then put you on your back
right where you were standing. that's the idea, but i actually don't
have to do much lifting. so when i come down and i split, i hold tight, i get a
strong pull when i back up. now you're right where you were standing. - the fundamental movement
here is the splitting either the hips, or you're doing some-- - leg to the outside. - you've just gotten really
good at doing this step. - and generating power from it, where when i kick, like, i press it hard enough where i'm not overextending this leg, and this moves. what a lot of people try to do is, they go here and they overcommit. now that's why you can't take that step. i try to hike and let that
slide into place naturally. it's important that the angle is here instead of straight on, unless you're gonna get me to turn and give you that angle. - okay. - so it's very difficult for you, like, if you take a grip here on the side, and then you were to try to come in and split my legs, right there, you see
how i can start to slide and there's a gap on this side. a lot of times when i do this,
people slip off to this side and you end up missing it. but if i change your angle
to here, now come in. - oh.
- see how you got my hip? - and so you're not worried
about coming around from this-- - because the second i
try to lift and jump over, that leg will be sliding back. and that's going to... if i try to step over,
my weight's going up. when back up, you're gonna amplify that. (lex flipping) - this is a dream come true by the way. so, you're known for this
interesting variation of just the say nagi throw
where you grab the lapel. can you explain how that works? - in a basic sense, you're gonna take a grip here. don't get pushed, like, resist there and then this happens. i get that back and forth push so that it's effortless on my front leg. so, that there. and see how you naturally
get pulled forward when i slip the pressure. that's the basics of it. now i have to get you to a point where you can't sprawl and
lower your center gravity. so what i do for that is, when i lower that weight
and i lift that weight. so i just hold it. that way when you pop up on your toes, the hand at the top of the arc holds you while i slip underneath, and then i can catch you on my hips. so i've gotta get there before
you get lower than i do. - and then you're doing this big-- - yes, so, typically if i
find my point at the center, my foot starts there, and then i replace, and i slip, and then we come back out. if you're gripping and
i'm holding your hand, which sometimes i do, if i press you at some point... there, see how i'm
getting you to stand up? that leg is light. now i can come back through. - yeah. - i press 'em until they
press back hard enough where we go from this angle to up, and then i can slide on. and let's say like, right? i can't attack, because
this leg is in front. i also, if you have a
good stable position, i can't necessarily move that foot. but your off balance point is here at the front, and there at the rear. so, if i take my pinky
and i hit that point, you're gonna turn and face me. thank you. now it's not in front anymore, so i never had to move it. and so when you're in this position, go ahead and move on that, and then not be to that front position. boom, wait. the second you see me starting to rotate, add to that, yeah. - and then you step in.
- yeah. there you go. (lex flipping)
there you go. and then now you don't feel the weight. (lex flipping) (fighters struggling) - thank you brother.
- of course.