- hey guys this is austin. and this is some of my
favorite tech of the year, and this video is sponsored by lg. this is the massive 77 inch c9 oled tv, as well as the sl9y soundbar that we did an entire setup
around earlier this year. this is used as our
video reference monitor here at the office, and
it's perfect for that. not only do we get excellent oled quality, but we also get the perfect blacks. it supports hdr, and
the nice thing is that when we watch our videos back on this, we can make sure they are just as sharp, just as crispy as we want them to be, before we upload them to you. it also runs webos, which means that you've got lots of great
streaming apps built right in. it also supports airplay 2, and on top of all of all of that, it actually has
surprisingly good speakers. but that is where we
use the sl10y soundbar. now the full 570 watts of power as well as support for dolby atmos, that plus the subwoofer means that this properly fills the room, and you can fully control the entire setup using the magic remote
and google assistant. then there's the lg ultragear 27gl850. now this has tech from the tv side in that it's a nice looking ips display, so much would you get on the nanocell tvs, but it actually has proper gaming cred. it has a one millisecond response time which is incredibly good for ips. it has a full 144 hertz refresh rate. it's supports not only
g-sync, but also freesync and it's a full 1440p resolution. so if you're interested,
definitely be sure to check out all these things in the
description of this video. we've actually done
videos earlier in the year on all of them if you wanna
know more, but for now, let's get into the tech. first of all, we've gotta
talk about the switch. so it has been a big year for nintendo. not only have they released
some major new games and there's a ton of new stuff that's coming out for the
switch pretty much every week, but on top of that, there are
two brand new switch models. the first is subtle. it's the red box switch. now while this might not be the switch pro that's likely coming at
some point in the future, what this is, is a actually
properly upgraded version of the standard switch. and the only way to tell, is
to buy one with the red box or well, look for the zero one at the end of the model number, but the red box is a
little easier to find. the real upgrade with the red box switch is that this is powered
by an upgraded version of the tegra x1 processor. now it doesn't mean that this
switch is any more powerful, but what it does mean is that you get significantly
better battery life. so we did an entire video all about this, and in our testing, we got
nearly double the battery life from the red box switch,
compared to the launch model. that is well, i mean, that's a big deal, especially considering that obviously not only is this a handheld console, but the red box switch
doesn't cost any more, and in fact there are still
a lot of the old school non red box switches still in stores, so for the exact same price, you could very easily
pick up the old switch or the new one with better battery life. so, look for the red box. now i probably don't need to
tell you all of the reasons why the switch is easily
the best handheld console of this generation, partially because it's the only
handheld of this generation, but oh wait, there's one more. it's the switch lite. mmm. this is actually my real pick. now don't get me wrong, there are certainly sacrifices
with the switch lite, but for the way that i use the switch, it's handheld mode 95% of the time. and in that scenario, the
switch lite is not perfect, but it's really good. at first you might be tempted to just write the switch lite off. not only does it lose the
switch part of the name, so this is a pure handheld,
you can't plug it into a dock, there's no hdmi out, and on top of that, there are no joy-cons. so even though you can pair
joy-cons that are of course, sold separately, but the actual
controls on the switch lite are all one unit. but if you can look past those issues, there's so much to like here. first of all, it's a slightly
smaller and lighter console, which means that it feels, to me, more comfortable for handheld play, and while yeah you don't
have the removable joy-cons, that's actually an advantage
as far as handheld play for me, because it is actually built in. it's one sold unit. a thicc boi, some wouldn't say. but it's a tank, so. it's an absolute unit. so no, you don't have
to get the switch lite. the red box switch does
have better battery life, the ability to do all the switch-y things, but as far as i'm concerned, the switch lite is absolutely
become my console of choice and because it's so tiny, it just lives in my bag all the time. like i absolutely love this thing. and at $200, not a lot
to go complain about. speaking of gaming,
something that's a little bit under the radar this year is the xbox one elite series 2 controller. now, i will admit, at $180 this
is shall we say, expensive, but in a recent comparison
we did with this and a bunch of other pro
customizable controllers, this actually was not even close to being the most expensive one here, and as far as the customizability goes, as far as the extra features, it's more expensive but you
get a lot for your money here. of course, it's built on a
great controller already, the xbox one, but they've
added a ton of customization and tweaks. so all of the sticks can be replaced, you have a few different options, and even the sticks
themselves can be adjusted based on how much tension you want, and then you can even
further go into the software and adjust the curves and stuff. you have swappable d-pads. you have adjustable triggers
as well as back paddles. i mean, there's a lot going for this guy. and on top of all of that, they finally rectified
one of the biggest issues i've had with the xbox controllers
since, oh i don't know, the dualshock 3 came out, in that it has a rechargeable battery. but to top it off, it has not
only usb-c, but it even comes, if i can find it here, with
this dope carrying case, which not only comes with
all of your accessories, you can actually take out the little brick and just literally just
wirelessly charge it. so you can just attach it like (calm music) there you go. okay. (clears throat) like this. eh, look at that. now it's time to switch
gears, and switch gears hard, as this is the latest ipad. and while it might not look
exciting, it actually is well, it's probably my favorite
ipad, no, scratch that. this is my favorite apple
device that could buy right now. considering that this is routinely
on sale for $300 or less, it's hard to argue with
the value proposition. i mean, straight up, i can't really recommend any other tablet. i mean, maybe like a
fire hd 7 for a few bucks for like a kids tablet or something, but the nice thing about this ipad is that you can actually get (clears throat) sorry real work done on it. now this year, the base ipad does have a
sightly larger 10.2 inch display as well as an extra gig of
ram compared to last year, but the big advantages here
really come down to the fact that of course, it does
support the apple pencil, but also does support the smart keyboard. now, this is obscenely
overpriced, i will definitely say, but a keyboard on an
ipad does go a long way in making it much more
of a laptop replacement. and that combined with the
various different advantages of ipados this year
mean that this little guy for less than $500, even if you wanna grab
some of the accessories can honestly do a lot of
laptop-y kind of tasks for most people. and even if you don't wanna
use it as a laptop replacement, if you just want a laptop, or sorry, if you just want an
ipad to just watch video and kinda do basic tasks
on, this is totally fine. like, real talk. this base ipad, two thumbs up from me. i absolutely love it. speaking of things i
love, it's the oneplus 7t. i feel like i've talked a lot
about this phone this year, but for good reason. i absolutely love a phone
which has so few compromises. especially considering the price. first of all for me is
absolutely the performance. this is one of the fastest,
most smooth, fluid experiences on a phone that you can buy right now. so it's backed up with solid specs. so it's got the snapdragon
855+, eight gigs of ram, but the real kicker here
is the 90 hertz display, and the optimization that oneplus has done to really make sure that
everything absolutely flies in this guy. it really keeps me coming back, as there are a lot of
other phones that are out, a lot of other phones i get to play with, but the oneplus 7t, there's something about just the way that they've designed this thing. it absolutely flies. i do prefer the 7t over the pro, mostly because i like this form factor. it's a little bit narrower and
it also has the flat glass, which just personally i prefer. but beyond that they are
very similar devices. now that does mean that
there are some downsides. so while the cameras are fine, and considering the price it's not really something
i can complain about, but it is not quite in the same league of something like the iphone
or the pixel or the galaxy, and on top of that, there are also a couple
of sort of minor issues, so it doesn't have any
official water resistance, so i don't know how much i would trust it, but it does have some water sealing, but the bigger thing is,
there's no wireless charging. now that's something i
actually really like. it's just so convenient, and while it does have solid battery life, and an incredibly fast warp charger, it's something i would like
to see in the next generation. with all that being said, these are some fairly minor compromises for what is otherwise an
absolutely excellent device. now if you're on the
ios side of the fence, the iphone 11 is incredibly
easy to recommend. so especially if you're
upgrading from an earlier device, there's a lot of advantages. one of my favorite parts
about the iphone 11 is it's really kind of like
the no compromises phone. i mean, okay, so it
doesn't have some features from the iphone 11 pro. you do lose one of the cameras. the screen's not quite
as nice, but beyond that, you're saving $300 or
more compared to the pro and the pro max. and getting almost the exact same phone. the performance is absolutely
excellent on this guy. you also get the water resistance
and the wireless charging. on top of all of that, the
cameras are absolutely top notch. notch. sorry, sorry, i need to stop doing that. look, next year there won't be a notch, and we'll all be fine. but no, but seriously, even though it doesn't
have the telephoto camera, the wide is excellent and the ultra wide's still pretty solid. but when you put this
whole package together with the great battery life,
the really durable build, at $700 while it's certainly
not a cheap phone by any means, if you're looking for a new iphone, it is very, very easy to go with the 11. and with that, those are all of my picks for the best and coolest tech
that i really like in 2019. there are a lot of other things that would get honorable mentions but, instead of doing that,
i'll let you guys pick. what did i miss in this video and what do you really like
that came out this year? let me know in the comments. i'm sure you will, regardless of whether i
ask you to or not, but. (quiet music)