- intel gamer days is running from september 27th to august 5th this year, and intel and newegg sponsored this video where i will be taking
on another tech youtuber to see who can build the
best $5,000 gaming rig. that's right, robeytech, i am laying down the gauntlet, it's more of a figurative gauntlet. the point is you guys will
be the ones to vote for who built the best pc, and
you can get a chance to win. just make sure you stay
tuned later in the video, because there's gonna be some
important details to remember. all right, ready, set, go. (upbeat music) it's intel gamer days, so obviously, the heart of our system is
gonna be a core i9-1900k. this puppy's got eight cores, 16 threads and turbos all the way to 5.3 gigahertz. beyond that, as long as
it's in stock at newegg, we're allowed to spend our
budget on whatever we want. so, believe it or not, we didn't go completely balls to the wall for our motherboard. we've gone with a z590-e gaming wifi. this has got all the features that we need with nothing that we don't. that means support for wifi 6e, dual 2.5 gigabit ethernet jacks, up to four m.2 nvme ssds with two of them supporting gen 4 speeds, support for up to 128 gigabytes of ddr4-533 ram, and of course, support for nvidia sli. okay, i lied. it does have some things that
are not entirely necessary, like the extensive rgb
lighting, but whatever. we had $5,000 to spend and
it's not our money, so. obviously because we're
working with the same budgets and the same constraints,
no custom water cooling, no case fabrication and no vinyl wrapping, i think there's a strong
possibility that justin's and my machines will end
up being quite similar in terms of the base hardware. so where we have to
differentiate is in our style, watch this flourish. (imitates gun banging) cpu installed. as well as with our paint job. and i've got a great theme
for our machine today. it's going to be robeytech themed. so, for all the haters out there that wanted to vote against me, well, you can't really do that unless you vote against robeytech. you either vote against the robeytech pc, or the pc built by robeytech, damn. for system memory, we've gone with a total of 32 gigabytes
of tridentz neo rgb ram from g.skill. this stuff's rated at 3,600
mega transfers per second, cl 16, and of course,
supports rgb synchronization with the rest of our system, which is the most important feature. now we could've gone
higher end with our budget, but this is a great balance
of high performance, reasonable price, and just plain, it works out of the box
because the thing about, you know, 5 gigatransfer per second memory or whatever is that
it's not just dependent on the memory in the motherboard. you also have to kind of get lucky in terms of whether your cpu's
integrated memory controller can manage to take it that high. now, it's time for storage. we could have gone with
mechanical storage, but we didn't. we decided, come on,
this is a $5,000 machine. so, we've gone with one
terabyte of pci express gen 4, wait, what? that's better. we'll be using a sabrent
rocket 4 plus one terabyte for our boot drive, and then,
for our mass storage drive, we're using an xpg sx8100 4 terabyte, no mechanical storage
for whoever wins this pc. did i perhaps blow the
budget a little bit, upgrading this drive
without telling anthony who did the parts list? maybe, look, i'm doing it for the people, for the potential winner of
this computer, intel gamer days. now i have no way of enforcing
this, but honor system, guys, as we prep the case and
get our cooling installed, try not to look too closely
at the custom paint job, okay? because i don't want to spoil
the big reveal at the end. it's got a custom paint job on it. since custom water
cooling wasn't an option, i went for the next best thing. this is the icue h170i
elite capellix from corsair and since that name doesn't tell me really anything about the
product, i'll run you through it. it's got a triple 140 millimeter radiator, includes corsair's ml series magnetic levitation
bearing fans, and, okay, it told us one thing. it's got their capellix
style, dense rgb array thing built into the cpu block. it also includes a six
channel rgb and fan hub. only one small problem. it's not gonna fit in like this and we're not allowed to modify the case. (tool whirring) (gentle music) there we go, you might
say we're cutting corners. i think we got it. i'm gonna put some fresh
thermal compound on our cpu. and now, i can throw
this puppy on here, man, this thing is coming together. this is why i was so
particular about the magnet in the screwdriver being super strong 'cause when you've got thumb nuts and you're trying to put them on, you need it to really grab
onto them, they're heavy. future lttstore.com. for now, oh, the shirt jake's wearing. great new design, retro gpu design. it's the closest thing to
a gpu you can actually buy. oh yeah, just like that. oh, so clean, so clean. and all we had to do was cheat a little. i guess we better put the power supply in. ironically, we won't get to
use one of the coolest features of the rog-thor-1200
platinum, which is, of course, this little built-in display here, which can tell you power consumption, fan rpm on the power supply,
all that kind of cool stuff. but that's okay. it's still a nice, high-quality, 80 plus platinum, 1200 watt power supply. (rooster crowing) for our graphics card, we've gone xtreme. because of our budget, we were able to afford not
only one of the most expensive, but one of the physically
largest graphics cards on the market. this thing is an absolute chungus, exceeding three slots wide. but theoretically, this
is what's gonna give us the cooling performance
we need to run this thing. at max speeds all the time. it's got a fricking built-in
display, triple fans, and a sleek looking aluminum backplate. check this out. if the system felt kind of empty before. i've actually seen people on craigslist and, andy you've seen
the same thing, right? with this particular card because they got it in a newegg
shuffle or something like that, but they want to trade
it for something else that's smaller 'cause their
case just won't fit it. hey, it fits great in here. we're gonna use our cable combs here to give these a nice,
tidy, consistent look coming out of the graphics card, maybe space them like kinda. ah, come on. and now, i've put this off
as long as i possibly can. (intense orchestral music) the cable management in this case actually really quite excellent. i'm impressed, oh snap, there's
a thing i didn't plug in. boop. you ready, andy? here we go, good luck everybody. okay, all the rgb lights
are on, that's a good sign. our display is on. yes, whoo! fan controller's like, yeah, we're not really doing anything. these maglev bearings are incredible. it's time for the finishing touch. this right here is my robeytech stencil. what do you think, andy? like, right there? all right, i just gotta get in my sticker application stance here. oh shoot. it's too tall, i have to do it again. this is gonna lose all of its stickiness by the time i'm done with it. okay, now most of my painting
experience is painting houses. so this iwata eclipse hp-cs is a little overkill for me, but, hey. fundamentally, i at least
like, know how it works. let's start with a white base. (paint bottle sloshing) you know, we want these colors to pop. does this even actually
call for shaking it? (spray paint gun hissing) okay, i think i've
decided what i want to do. we're gonna do another hit of that. i can call it a hit if i want. (water bubbling) yeah, that's nothing new. okay, i need a paper towel. okay, i don't want to overdo
it, should we call that good? robeytech, ah! full disclosure, i didn't do
most of the painting, okay? nicholas callanan did it. you can see it uses
the same angular finish as the meshify 2. he sanded down the fractal logo, so it's gone from the front and put a robeytech logo there. i think i'm finally
ready to configure my rgb after like 15 minutes of
installing these utilities. we're going with static red
'cause i don't care anymore. static red, boom. oh, the graphics card. 12.7% of my cpu is being used up by icue. are you (beep) kidding me, corsair? it's the size of a graphics driver. (gentle music) screw it, i'm just leaving
them on rainbow vomit. i give up, i'm just gonna
uninstall the utilities. performance comes first. rgb configuration woes aside, i think this is an absolutely
fantastic looking machine and with specs to match. it's got this great red,
gray and white color scheme going on on the front. the cable management
is absolutely sublime, you can hardly see a cable in this thing. and i think the paint job that callanan, and i guess i also contributed to, makes it just the right
amount of robeytech without being too in your face. i think all of those things
together should be enough to get your votes, but if they weren't, we've got the fastest gaming hardware that money can buy with an rtx 3090, 32 gigs of 3600 megahertz,
cl 16 memory, and of course, at its heart, the core i9 11900 k, which boosts to up to 5.3 gigahertz, and actually, you can fine
tune it to go even higher with intel's extreme tuning utility. it's got a bit of an
unconventional cooling layout, but it seems to be
surviving our torture test with cinebench and furmark running and doubles as a space heater
for your hands on cold days. so, you know, if your hands
get cold gaming, you can. the finishing touch for my masterpiece and all that's left is
for you guys to vote. intel is giving away four pcs, this one, the one robeytech
built and two additional ones, and you can find all the details and submit your votes
at the link down below. voting ends september the 4th, but the sweepstakes is actually open until september the 27th. and whoever wins, me or robeytech, we get to pick one of our viewers and give them a rocking laptop. it's a gigabyte aero 15 with an rtx 3080, and core i7 11800 h. so, no pressure, but you
should probably pick me, at least that's what i think for now, but i haven't seen robeytech's build yet. and i'm about to. (upbeat music) wow, he went all out on the paint job. that's looking pretty sweet. wow, that is a very over the top look. not gonna lie, that's a sick machine, but consider this, okay? robeytech clearly installed
the rgb utilities. which computer would you rather have? mind you, you could just get
his, but then uninstall them. enter the sweepstakes, go
check out intel gamer days. we're gonna have all
those links down below and we're gonna have robeytech's
channel link down there, so, go check him out. he does lots of builds, especially live streams
and stuff like that. it is worth having a look at.