- this is the steam deck
versus switch build off. are both teams ready? - yes.
- yeah, let's go. - all right
- later, losers. - let's do it. - we don't need to rush. - what, we don't?
- no. - well, you actually just might because we have a lot
in store for you today. we have austin and youtuber, sara dietschy (rhymes with peachy) going up against team ken and our guest quinn from snazzy labs in the battle of the steam deck
versus the nintendo switch. they'll have the entire day together, all the materials they're gonna need and to put it all together. but in one hour, each
team is gonna have to open up these envelopes to figure out what this build off challenge is gonna be. let's see what they got. - so, now that they're gone, we actually can get our real plan started. - yes. so, i'm not going to admit that this is the first time
i've ever held a steam deck. - they're pretty good. - i'm a pro-- - let me pitch you. - yes, please, please. oh, no. where's he going? oh my gosh. - so, here's the thing. the rules for this build
off are a little different in that there's really not
a budget component here. we can do stuff that we're
normally not allowed to do like steal everything in the office or not worry about the budget. i personally sleep really soundly at night knowing that we're gonna win at all costs. - so, i actually had a
pre-prepped game plan for this. i'm going to use an old trick
that we have on the channel. it's actually parked around the corner. - oh no. i already know where this is headed. - you already know where this is going. - so, a year and a half
ago, we built a pc inside of a 2012 scion iq. it's been dubbed the gamer
car by a lot of my friends. this thing has a 42 inch tv in the back. i think that it can serve its
purpose again here for this. i mean, it's already there
and built for us more or less. - we can switch it up. - okay. so how do you foresee
the setup being, like, are we going to be rolling around while-- - one-handed? we can mount a tv right here, hook up our steam deck to the back of this and then a-- - look at the suspension. - look, when you're
gaming, don't kill me, bro! - okay, so what are we
doing with it though? - we're gonna put the switch in here, we probably should have
taken the dock with us. do some minor upgrades not
because it's my personal car, but we're gonna make it look cool. - so in the portable mode, we can just follow the
car while doing ring fit. and rather than jogging in place-- - we jog in real life. - i want to try to fit
a mini fridge in here. - in here? - well, that's like,
that's not gonna happen. - in here. - oh there's tons of room,
you could fit a full fridge in there.
- yeah! - while we're trying to
rig up the cyber quad, 'cause here's a concern, i'm not good at rigging. - i know how to rig film equipment. - well good thing, we're in a studio, we're gonna steal a
bunch of film equipment and figure out how to put it on here. - let's do that. - tech is super cool,
but you know what sucks? the huge upfront payment, if only there was a better way. this video is sponsored by grover. grover is the unique and
flexible rental service that sends the latest and
greatest tech straight to your door. you can enjoy that tech
too without breaking the bank, everything from an 8k tv or this meta quest. with rental periods from one to' months at a time, you can use
the product for exactly as long as you want to. the website is easy to
use and it makes choosing from their large selection
of over 3,000 products completely hassle-free. the reality might be
virtual, but the damage dealt might not be to your wallet. luckily, grover keeps your
protected from high repair costs by paying 90% of the
bill if anything goes wrong. you can join and immediately
enjoy all the latest tech and receive one
month off of a three-month minimum rental period by using the code austinevans33off when you sign up today. big thank you to grover
for sponsoring this video. - [quinn] oh there it is. - yeah, here's the autozone.
- already there. - autozone is the place. - they've got leds,
they've got seat covers, they've got accessories,
they've got speakers, they've got everything. - we got some stuff to
at least spruce this up, at least to convince the judges hopefully that we've done some work. - now, it's off to lowe's to
find any weird other things that we can use. - so you know, when i agreed
to this, i didn't think austin would just leave. leave me here to do
all the work, you know? i think he went to go get
some food or something. this is the real austin
evans, if you guys don't know. cinematic with the light. - [jared] very. - lighting my face. i should
have done my nails before this, gosh, this is so embarrassing. oh there he is. - i have stolen--
- okay, so now, now, okay so he was doing some work, guys. oh no, it's fine, austin. - is the dissention in the ranks already? - i don't know, because
look at this, i'm already doing stuff over here. - [narrator] man, it's not
looking good to start off for team austin and sara, they might want to get it together because it's already been an hour and it's time for the first challenge. - oh!
- what is that? - is that the first challenge? - all right, let's open this thing up. good ol' manilla envelopes. - oh dear. it's a qr code that's been chopped up. - wait. wait, josh, josh! we're gonna be here a while. - okay, that's...
- in this challenge, we've gotta go fast. (laughing) my wife literally told me
if i ever wear this home, she's gonna kick me out of the house. - i think that's reasonable. - so, thanks to sara's
sheer and total genius, our setup is looking great. we're basically done. we spent zero dollars, accomplished zero
challenges, but it's fine, because we've already built the coolest part of anyone's setup. yo! yo! that was so easy. - see ya, bye! - look at this, look at this.
- i'm getting lunch. - look at sara, the
rigging master over here. i unscrewed four bolts and
that was my contribution. - hey, but you came up with the concept, so we need a visionary,
we need the idea guy. - all right, here we go. i put it together on the floor, oh it's a youtube link. - on the first try! - okay, dislike. - we've been known to waste
money at places like wish, amazon and target, but i
think it's time to touch grass and financially support
our local communities. and to do this, we're
gonna tap into our austinnot duncan roots and each team must spend $303 at local shops. - wait, does autozone count as a, do they mean mom and pop? or do they mean just outside? - so last time on the ultimate build off, the secret challenge was
that we had to incorporate a light and we would
get an additional credit for our budget, but guess what, our budget doesn't matter here. - my first reaction was,
oh food, 'cause i'm hungry, i know you're hungry. - very hungry. - and it's time to go eat food. - i think we can spend
$300 at lunch, right? - yeah. - is that unreasonable? - 100%. - [narrator] yeah, that
seems in the spirit of the rule, all right. but on the way to the restaurant, check out what they found on the streets. - so, i spotted something. ken has parked his iq out here. i know for a fact that
this sits in the garage, 'cause ken never drives it,
'cause he's half broken it. - are they around here? - let's investigate. - yeah, oh-oh. - this looks normal. - damn, i thought ken
was gonna do something with the car, or why else would he park it out here. - it looks totally fine and normal. i thought we had something,
this was highly suspicious. - what is even around
here that will cost $303? - what's the best way to win over judges? bribery, so with food
and other types of items. - get a charcuteries and
put it inside the fridge. - [rich] does matt ansini like cheese? - he does, actually! - all right, there we go. - let's go! (laughing) - cheers, friends, to local business and to delicious food. jared, we even got you lunch, because we just totally want-- - i know, you guys are so
sweet, it's the greatest. usually i'm never fed. it's a cry for help. (upbeat music) - okay, so we're leaving lowe's now, we got our mini fridge, as
well as a bunch of lights, i'd say it was a pretty successful trip, so that was $293.90,
not at a local business. we can also drive to a surplus shop, we can probably find some
decoration and nicknacks there. - all right. let's go! - okay guys, here's what we're
doing, our lunch was a $100, we're gonna tip a $100, random acts of kindness
and then we're gonna have a $100 left to spend locally. and then we get our second challenge. thank you, i wanted to
hand the tip directly. so, have a good day. that's for you. - [woman] oh, thank you so much. - of course, of course. have a good one. i will say, her face was
like really confused. because she thought i was
paying for the lunch again. - and tipping 70 cents? - tipping 70 cents, if
i could be mr. beast but not be it my money, that would be the funnest, i'd just go out and hand out money to people. (laughing) that's amazing. - [quinn] we need to get
three bowls for our judges and let's get three plates. i'm just trying to
maximize our spending here. - we spent a total of $153, but real talk, we got a bunch of-- - chairs.
- couple of chairs. - there was a table. - chair with a table. we need to spend $150. - that's easy.
- yeah. - our next stop is best buy and here's where i think
we're going to be able to get some of the most important components of our setups. namely, a tv that will
be the correct size. that will be the correct
style of mounting-- - it will fit the mount--
- as far as the back. - oh yeah, that's a big boy. (laughing) - hey, how's it going, everybody? - [man] doing, well, doing well. - we decided to go into
town to our local game shop. - to get a ring fit adventure, you kind of need ring fit. - [cashier] you can get 10%
off your entire purchase if you want to right now. for this particular purchase, can we add some amount to it? - i would not like the discount in fact. - so we have come to the
mall and we're looking for a little bit more of a local store. kind of in a hurry. - [austin] by a little bit. - [sara] right? - so, tokyo: japanese lifestyle? - [sara] oh my gosh. oh, squirtles! let's get some squirtles! - yes! i mean, squirtle! thank you very much. - [sara] how much? - [austin] 114. - [sara] 114! - [narrator] and with
that, team austin and sara have completed the challenge, the only thing left before the judging is for team ken and quinn to actually put together this car. they've been running around all day, but time to actually do something. - that's all we got on, oh, i don't have any way to remove that. can i do this like fingerprints? can i just? nope. so, we have to do a bunch of stuff, and we're kind of rushing a little bit 'cause we're low on time. - yeah, and we've got to run power from the inverter in the back of the car to the front so that
we can run the fridge. we've got to remove the passenger seat and unplug the airbag assembly. - yes, and we haven't even
talked about our lighting and installing our nintendo switch. now, the good thing is that
the installs themselves aren't that complicated, there's just a lot of
stuff on the laundry list. - yeah. - we just need to get our heads down. i think if we put in an hour at most, i feel like we can get the
rest of our stuff done. - yeah. i think so too. - we are back here with team ken and quinn here to present the team switch. let's go ahead and see what you guys go. - yeah, it's actually right behind us. - oh wow, you guys built it in a car? how revolutionary. - [sara] yeah! - very professional. (upbeat music) - we painted the mirror caps-- - what are you doing to this car? - this is a pretty small car, it only fits one and a half people, so why do you need the passenger seat? we've removed it--
- oh my god. - and replaced it with a fridge. - quinn, quinn, quinn, quinn, yeah, here, hand it over. - would you like your own charcuteries? - wait, wait, wait, no, no, no. hey-- - i'm hungry, okay? - judges, judges! - there's plenty more. this fridge is spacious. - hey jared, come here, come here, jared. we're just gonna point out, that 80% of what they've done here was already in the iq
from the previous video. - the tv was already in there. i think they need to get
docked for a creativity point. they didn't even offer me any cheese. - we're gonna play some
real ring fit adventure, ladies and gentlemen. let's go. you're good, you're good. oh the backup camera works, right? - oh my god, this is actually working. - it's always unsettling when you realize that your thing is actually gonna work. - all right, ready? - oh, yes! - all right, quinn. do it slowly, do it slowly, wait, wait, wait, stop, stop, stop. quinn stop, stop, quinn! quinn wait, wait, wait,
i'm not wearing the strap, i'm not wearing the strap. go faster. yeah, go, go, go. go, go, go, keep going, keep going. - [sara] oh my god. - go, go, go, go, go. oh my god, it's working. - [sara] that's pretty funny actually. - we're at good speed though, wait, the strap fell. wait, quinn, stop, stop, stop, wait, wait. all right, do a u-turn, do a u-turn. - this is truly unhinged. - see, here's the slight
issue with this plan, you have to account for traffic. - come on in my esteemed panel of judges and so-called contestants. i am very excited to present
to you what might just possibly be the most cutting
edge, revolutionary way to experience the
switch, you've ever seen. - switch or steam deck? - steam deck that you've ever seen. because the anticipation is real, i want to make sure
that everyone's feeling, except you guys,
everyone's feeling at home and having a great time. we were thinking about you, griffin, we know that you love the movie, so we got you the lego batman. - this is unbelievable,
i can't believe this. - of course, matt, the atst. so we just wanted to give you
a token of our appreciation and buy off the judges to help us win. i mean, a token of our appreciation. - well now we know how
you spent your $300. - but on top of that, we
also have what might just possibly be the greatest setup of all time, presenting the portable steam deck-- - oh my gosh, it's not going. - [austin] in all of its amazing glory. - it's not going? is it turned on?
- how do you turn it on? the thing with this next setup is it's not very subtle, so we had to hide it. okay, we got everything set up, everyone walked into the room, and we really put the focus on making sure the steam deck was working. - this is like when elon threw the rock at the cybertruck. - so we're a little delayed. there was a little bit of a panic. - but you know what happened though? was that you made a dramatic entrance. - okay, you guys, can i
explain it real quick? - go, go, go, go, go! go, go, go! presenting! - wait, oh jesus christ,
i don't like that at all! - the portable steam--
- wait, wait! (laughing) - dangerous, dangerous! - i love it how it's grand theft auto, but like very immersive, you almost killed one of the judges. - wow, getting a solid 20 fps. - wait... - i'm glad you turned on the fps counter. - i like the setup, i'm not gonna lie. - would you like to get on,
it, would you like to ride it? - yeah, please. - i don't want to, i
don't want to kill ken. - real talk, is it actually
leaning a little bit? real talk. - oh my god.
- see? isn't that fun?
- yeah. - that looks like it's
gonna smack you in the face. (laughing) - yeah. - so we are at the end of the competition and the only thing that's left is for the judges to tell
us who won this whole thing. jimmy, what you think? - the car was really fun. i liked the food, it was a
great setup you guys had, the image of you chasing
after the car was excellent. however, i'm super biased
towards the steam deck, i love the ingenuity of connecting the tv to the quad, it was great,
so i'm gonna go with austin and sarah. - let's go, let's go. - yes! - all right, griffin, what about you? - the thing that separated your guys' from your guys' was that you were using something that was already put together in-built with the car, the tv in the back and everything, yeah, you added like a few
touches here and there. - many touches. - the thing with the
fridge was that every time you opened it, it hit
the dash in front of it, so it couldn't fully open, you know? it's okay. so i've got to go with you guys. - am i counting this correct,
is this already a victory? - so we already win? - i mean, matt, is this a clean sweep? - as the whip... my vote counts three times. - is that true? - no disputes from me, no disputes. - three times? why are we even here? (laughing) - we love you, we love you, jimmy. - what is going on right now? - however, i do have
to admit that you guys had the most rigging, you
actually built something which is a huge step up
for austin, let's face it, that was all because of sara, not austin. let's not mince words, but
i've got to give this one. (cheering) - [sara] thank you, thank you! - congratulations, fair
play, we're gonna keep sportsman-- - i've now lost twice and i
will never come back here. (laughing)