- this is a nearly 1000
pound block of ice. and inside there is a gaming
pc which i need to get out. so our friends over at omen
wanted to sponsor a video on their brand new 45l, which apparently has a
very cool cooling solution. i wouldn't know until i
get it out of the very real block of ice. (gentle electronic music) (hand tapping) - i got it, i got it. (foot tapping) - ow, my ankle. we gotta figure out how to
get this thing out of the ice without destroying the pc, which thankfully at
least is inside the box. they were very clear
in their instructions, get it out or else. well they didn't say that, but that was kind of the insinuation. (crowbar taps) whoa! okay, so it actually does
kinda come apart a little bit. - strong boy over here. hey wait, let me, let me. - i've already gotten, - no, you stay way. you stay away. - you aren't even hitting it that hard. - you just gonna melt it with body heat? (laughing) - oh god, don't push me over. the kids that i could
potentially have in the future are not happy. - oh no, no. they are happy, cold is better. - oh, then who is gonna... - what is that? - if anyone destroys our new
office you have to pay for it. - unfortunately, austin didn't have ice the
first time it happened but... - let's try to melt on the top. because i do kind of think
the top is our best move. - okay, i know i've been joking. - yeah. - this whole time. - yeah. - but can i throw a little science here? - science, please. - if you melt the top. oh right. - it's gonna melt. - into the pc. - and then well, no, that's a little it's you're going to melt all this water and it's gonna freeze up again. - here. - do it on the side. (scratching ice) - x marks the spot. - yeah, there we go. (blow torch whooshing) oh, whoa.
- whoa! - oh, it's kinda working. - it's actually working really well. - so, you've definitely got
like a pretty big dent there. you gonna pull back for a second. - yeah. - so that's a pretty decent size but okay so, we know the blow torch works. the problem now is they're
just soaking all the way down and refreezing on the bottom. look, see all the water
just refroze down here. - i got an idea. - there's a lot of ideas
here, we've made no progress. - i brought something from home. (tapping on ice) - hey, are you done
- i need progress. it just makes me feel better. - i brought something from home. if you drop it, we don't
wanna break the pc though. that's i guess that is in... - it's not gonna break, austin. - all right, i'm going to
get out of the way then. - could break the pc. we'll do it from like six inches. (thud) (laughing) - well, i like how it spins though. - whoa, oh, it's cracked. - okay. let me try that. - whoa. okay, that was a good idea but hang on. what does that crack give us? because this is still not. - dude look how deep that is though. - oh there, you can see the whole thing. - look at that, oh my god. - i have an idea. (drill whirring) - okay, i'm gonna pick just a clean hole. - okay you realize that
it's just a phillips head. (all laughing) - yeah, what screw dude? oh, well, okay well. - okay but i have a better tool. - okay let's try a better idea. - his name's austin. (drill whirring) - oh yo. but actually though, it's
cutting through like butter. okay. that actually is pretty cool. (drill whirring) - oh whoa. - yo that's sweet. wait, let's get the slow motion of this. (calm music) so i do have a new technique,
so if i start drilling. (drill whirring) - there look at that. - circular motion. okay, i did nick the box a little bit. i need to be a little more careful. - oh, yeah there you need. there's a little a chip in there. - okay, we need to start cleaning up. - it's snowing. wow - that hasn't happened
in so long, okay grinch. (laughing) - no snow for you. - we need to open the door. can someone holds the door
open while i throw ice out. - are you? - testing out those new
fillings that i got last week. (laughing) they work. - we've done all the fun experiments, but i want to actually get this pc out. i wanna try the omen 45l. i think the only way we're going
to be able to do it without it taking literally all
day is to tag team drilling and blow torching to crack this front open and we'll pull the pc out. i think that's our move. okay, this is about to be bad. - okay. (laughing) - that actually was very helpful. i think i could work with that. (laughing) wow. - wait. - what? - i want to try. i'm going to try. - you try to kick it. - yeah. - you're gonna hurt yourself. 
- it's okay. - you're going to hurt yourself. - it wasn't the first time. - i'm backing up. you shouldn't do this though. - well, what should i do?
roundhouse kick? drop kick? - you're going to break your foot. you will actually break your foot. - actually. - you will break your foot. (ice cracking) lets go! - i'm stronger than i thought. (lo-fi music) - i can't pick up the ice. (laughing) - so i guess let's break the sides now. - oh my god! - we should have done
this on the start austin. - okay. hang on. there are lots of large pieces
of ice that are gonna fall, - so i can't move. - you can move. go ahead,
go and take that aside. i will hold this together. - oh that's heavy. - so now that we have cleaned
up the giant pile of ice and water that was on our floor, let's take a look at the
actual omen box. you'll see. it's actually in pretty good shape. and you can see where it got
a little too punchy with the drill. it's soaked through a little
bit there on this side and on this side, that's fine though. i'm sure it's fine. it's not wet in any way. although i will say it's cold. oh yo, this cryo chamber on top, you can literally like fit
your hand underneath here. i've actually never seen
a pc like this before. oh my god. there's a button. the internal access is literally a button. - that's actually really cool. - look at this and inside it's powered
by the 12th generation intel core i9 processor. so, because we forgot
to bring a monitor. we're going to bring this
back to the old office and plug it in and see if it works. but i'm sure it's fine. it's totally dry. so i'm not worried. so my friends, it is the omen 45l. and now that it has been successfully rescued
from the block of ice. there are a few interesting
things to take a look at, starting from the top.
there is the cryo chamber. so there's actually a couple
of ways to get into it. so there's a little panel on top, but essentially the idea is that the aio, the cpu cooling is put
inside of this sort of attic of the case. all of your cpu, is being run the heat all
up through here and it lives inside the cryo chamber, which means that no matter
how hard you're cranking your cpu, it shouldn't really affect
the temperatures of the main system itself. and vice versa. if that 3090 inside is
running at a hundred percent pretty much, all of the
cooling of the primarily the main part of the cooling inside the actual system
is dedicated to cooling off your graphics card. - very clever. - yeah, you've basically got two completely different thermal zones. thus, the cryo chamber branding. i've never seen anything like this. i actually think it's a really good idea. it's not only does it
have the 12th generation intel core i9 processor. this is one of the higher
end configurations really. you also do have 32 gigs of ram. you've got a pair of two
terabyte wd black ssds. and of course, the rtx 3090, now i'll give a special shout
out to omen because look at the size of the support for the 3090. i don't think i've ever
seen a bracket that big, which especially considering
how huge the card is. it's nice to have a little
bit of support there. we've got three fans on the
intake. one of the exhaust, which honestly seems maybe
like a little bit like overkill concerning that the only thing
that's really providing heat in here is that graphics
card. so they've already, pre-run a sata power and data
cable all the way to the back where there's 3.5 inch drives are. so it would take you all of 30 seconds to install a hard drive. that is a nice touch. so to really put the omen through its paces. we have a game that ken and i
have been playing a lot lately forza horizon 5, let's do a launch. shall we? oh god, this is so stupid fast. so for context right now, we're playing at 4k ultra settings at 108 frames per second. so, you know, no big deal, not like this thing is
unbelievably ridiculously overpowered. we're cruising at 240 miles an
hour and it's not even like breaking a sweat. - yeah this computer really
does make all of these games look really good. - i've literally done no
optimization on this. i just threw everything to max
and ultra and then we're just getting a 100 frames per
second and it looks beautiful. - yeah. no. (giggles) - all right, hang on. i've gotta get my feet underneath me. - drift master, you know, you're supposed to drive
on the road, right? not the side-walk. you could have carried that
drift out a little longer. - we should pay attention here. okay. so, the omen 45l is definitely
a unique value because you're getting something
which as far as i'm concerned, i've never seen before with
this cryo chamber cooling. but of course if you want
to know anything more about the omen 45l or potentially some of the other things. cause then this video is
for the ces timeframe. so there might be some
other announcements, but definitely be sure to
go check out the link in the description. and if you'll, excuse me, i'm going to go beat ken in drifting.