we're going to discuss a little bit about knots and links, about how to use coloring knots and links to study them. i'll take, say, a piece of string and i'll project it on a blackboard or a piece of paper, that's called the projection of a knot. and you see when i project it there are overs and unders that tell me how it looked when it was back in three dimensional space. now of course you could think of a piece of string as just going like a line, but in mathematics it's convenient to take the two ends of the string and connect them together so that it forms a circle all the way around, right. if you don't stick the two ends together you can of course always unknot something just by pulling the strand through; and i'm trying to avoid doing that so that i can talk about when two knots are different. it looks like a circle in the sense that if i had a little ant sitting on this, for example here's my little ant, he would walk around this way and then they keep going and keep going and keep going and then he would come back gradually; he or she - actually it's she in case of ants - would come back to where she was at the very beginning. and that's what makes it a circle. but it's a complicated circle in that it's not just like this, right, this would be what we call the trivial knot, or the unknot, which has no knottings. this is a knot in the sense that you can't get from this picture to this picture without doing something discontinuous like cutting the knot or something like that. in mathematics we're interested in studying classification of knots; how - what can you say about knots? how many are there with with a certain level of of knottings, and things like that. how do you actually prove that these two knots are different? it's not so obvious, in other words you notice that when you're a kid for example, i loved to do it when i was a kid, you like taking some piece of string, making it look like it's really complicatedly knotted and then you fool the adults by showing that it just yanks out, right? so how do you know that isn't true of this, or that you couldn't get from this to this by doing something like making it much more complicated and then somehow yanking it out? in fact we can prove that there's no way to go from this to this. the unknot and this knot - this knot is called the trefoil knot, it's the first non-trivial knot and how do you prove that there's no way to go from this to this, right? how do you know that if you did a zillion ways of moving it around the knottings wouldn't cancel out, right? (brady: so just making it) (is not enough, and like fiddling around) (with it?)
- that's right. you could say, why don't you just count the number of crossings, right? the trouble is you can change the number of crossings in various ways in a knot. so this knot has three crossings where there's an over going on top of an under, there's one over here there's another one over here, and there's another one over here. so there are three places where one strand lies on top of another like that. so you could say why don't you just count the number of crossings? this one has zero crossings, this one has three crossings. and it is true that the minimum number of crossings you need for this one is three; and for this one the number of crossings is zero. but the trouble is that you can change the crossing numbers, for example a simple dumb bunny way to change the crossing numbers is introduced into a piece of a knot. a pigtail like that; which obviously you could yank out, right? there are three basic ways that you can introduce more crossings in nota knot. those are called 
the reidemeister moves. this is the first one, the simplest one, and there are two more that involve more strands. and the problem is that the reidemeister moves seem to increase the number of crossings, but you can do the opposite and decrease; and so you haven't solved the problem of why can't you get rid of all the crossings by doing a lot of these 
reidemeister moves? maybe first complicated and make a million crossings, but then yank it out and get down to zero, see what i mean? (brady: is that just like a cosmetic 
crossing or) (is it like a lifetime crossing?) absolutely, that's the issue. now let me draw for you the other reidemeister moves; and any motion of a knot can be broken up into a series of these simple motions. so this is one, the pigtail, which you could yank out. you could yank the pigtail out to just get a straight line, for example, and a segment of the knot. or you could have two segments of the knot that are, for example, not doing anything at all - lying next to each other. and then you pull one strand over the other one. so you would take this, and you could move it so that it would look for example like this with one strand going over and the other one just going always under; and obviously you could yank this back to look like that, right? or vice versa. so that's the reidemeister2. and there's one more complicated motion, r3, which involves three strands. and there what you do is you have two strands, one is crossing over the other, and a third strand comes in and then goes, let's say over both of them say, like that, so this looks like this and then what i could do when i have three strands, for example, i could move it to a picture where this guy that's going always over moves over further up. instead of down here he could move over here over all of them like that, get what i mean? and now obviously i could do that by just pulling the third strand higher. so that's r3. so those are obvious simple moves that you can do and change the projection of a knot. and now the question is, how do you prove that there's no way to go from the trefoil knot to the unknot, using these simple moves? or to give another example, there's a simple knot called a figure eight; and you see it's going to have in the middle something that looks like a figure eight, roughly. [music] this one has zero crossings, this one has three crossings, this one - let's count them - has one, two, three, four crossings. this is a four crossing knot and one can prove that actually not only is there no way to go from this one to the unknot, but also these are two different knots. in other words, just by moving this around without cutting it, there's no way to go from the trefoil to the figure eight, or the figure eight to the trefoil. so here we have an example, already, right away of three really different knots. we can complicate them by doing these motions, reidemeister moves, we could - might try to simplify them by other reidemeister moves, but in fact no matter how many zillions of moves we make these three are all different and there's no way to go from one to the other. (brady: so professor, it feels like these) (reidemeister moves,) (they're like cosmetic moves, they're like-) that's right. they don't change the underlying type of the knot. they change the way it sits in three-dimensional space, but they're equivalent to each other we- as knots, in the sense that one can be deformed continuously to the other without cutting it. there are tables of knots which tabulate knots by the minimum number of crossings. so this is the only knot with zero crossings. this is the first
non-trivial knot, the one that's not the unknot, is the trefoil knot with three crossings. this is the one with four crossings, there are two with five crossings; and then the number of knots begins to go up very fast. by the time you're up into say 12 crossing knots you've got tens of thousands of them and so on. the question is how do you prove that they're different from each other? now, mathematicians have a whole bunch of different methods of doing that; using geometry, using algebra, using a bunch of different ideas; but there's a very pretty old idea that can be explained to you know bright high school students by using coloring of knots. and that's what i propose to show you, because it's very visual, and you can just see it. so the idea is the following, i'm going to consider the following problem. and for simplicity i'm just going to be working with three colors. so what do i mean by three coloring? i mean that when i take a projection of a knot, like this picture over here, i'm going to color each of the apparent segments that i see under the projection. so for example in this case, because i had four crossings, they look like there are four segments over here where it's unbroken. there's one here and there's another one that goes all the way around here and another one here, and so on. four crossings gave me four segments that it's broken up into, and i'm going to try to color the knot using three different colors. and what i'm going to do is i'm going to try coloring it in a way so that- with certain rules about how i'm allowed to color it. and then i'll see that with these rules, some knots can be three colored and some knots cannot be three colored, and that's going to let me distinguish one kind of knot from another kind of
knot. so i'll be dividing the knots into
two kinds; those which can be three colored and those which cannot be three colored. now that's not a way of telling all knots apart, because it's kind of crude that i'm only dividing them up into two sets. but still it'll tell me that some of them are not equal, cannot be deformed to the other ones. now i have to have a rule because if i have no rule anything could be colored with three colors, and then i'm not gaining any information. so i have to have a rule. but i want to have a rule that's compatible with my reidemeister moves; in the sense that if i could color a knot before, there's an obvious way to then color it after i do one of these reidemeister moves. so when i get to a crossing there's an over one, and then there are two unders. one coming in, the other side another one at a crossing i will see three colors because i will have the color of the over, and then the two unders coming there; so i have to have three different colors here, and i have to have some rule limiting what happens at a crossing. one obvious rule to try to use is say, well since that- i'm trying to do this with three colors and at a crossing there are three strands coming together, the two unders and the over, maybe the rule should just be: at a crossing point like this you get all three different colors. that seems like the obvious rule to try. insist that at the crossing it looks something like blue over here, red over here, and say green. and i do those three colors together and that would be the rule to have. that's a natural first guess. it almost works but not quite. the reason it doesn't quite work, you can see already, because it has to be compatible with these reidemeister moves that
are- as i do the reidemeister moves, the coloration or the color ability is maintained as i do them. now if i do, for example, even just a pigtail; so i start off with a single strand like that and then i take this strand - so this is somewhere in a big knot diagram, somewhere in it. and i take this pigtail, and that of course i can yank out, and go back to what i had before. so i can go back and forth between these two. but notice what happens that, at the crossing, i'm coming in from somewh- other stuff in the knot, so i'm coming in blue, and i'm going out blue; well that's it, then i've got to be blue all the way. so you can see that at this crossing, that i've introduced with the pigtail, in order to make it compatible with what i had before i have no choice but to allow at a crossing all three colors to be the same at that crossing. so i'm going to modify my first guess for the possibility that all three are the same. our tentative new rule is going to be all three different, or all three the same, okay? and that's a rule which we can check now, case by case, is compatible with these reidemeister moves. and now i do the second reidemeister move; and the second reidemeister move consisted of pulling one of these over the other. i'm coming in from elsewhere in the knot so i can't change the ends of this, so i've- i'm now going to have one of this is coming in blue, the other one is still coming in red also, and in fact they've got to go out the same way to fit with what's going on elsewhere in the knot; so here this is going to go out red and this is still going to go out blue, like it did before over here. but what happens in between? well in between, this red guy goes over here and comes over in this reidemeister move here, and then goes back here, and connects up here - fine. this one is going to continue all the way down, and then of course that's something i could yank out by the second reidemeister move. just by pulling this back over there and then i would get my original picture. but see what happens: remember my rule was that at the crossing all three are different or all three of the same; so with this crossing i have here blue and red, so now i've got to get green coming out of there. i have green coming out of there, coming down here, and here's green - ah! and now i'm in luck because there's green and red and blue coming together, and that's compatible with my rule because at that crossing all three are different. so we see that this rule is compatible with the first reidemeister move, the second
reidemeister move; and in fact we could check more cases to see that it's compatible with
the third one. so this property of being colorable with this rule stays the same as i do all three of the reidemeister moves - with me? and, and now i want to have a non-trivial coloring. by non-trivial coloring i mean with more than one color. so the question i'm going to ask myself is which knots have a 3-coloring, with this rule, with more than one color? of course every knot has the silly color, the trivial coloring, where i color it all one color - so that's not of interest; but i want to do it with more than 
one color. okay? and now you'll notice that this one, the unknot, doesn't- i can only color it with one color, because there are no crossings. so this does not have a non-trivial coloring, this has only a silly coloring, and as i move it around that's all i'm going to keep getting is that silly coloring, and i'm not going to be able to color it with different colors. no matter how i move it i will not be able to color it non-trivially subject to this rule. let's look at the trefoil one, see is the trefoil colorable? well okay, so for example this strand over here is going to be red. then there's going to be another strand which is going to be blue, let's say this one. and then there's going to be a strand that's going to be green, let's say this one; and now lo and behold you've noticed that at each of the crossings we have all three colors. so this trefoil knot - haha great success, is in fact three colorable. this is an example of a three colorable knot. and this one is not three colorable. and the last one we're going to consider today is the figure eight knot. suppose that this strand was red, and then this strand let's say was green, let's say. well if this strand is red, and this one is green, then this one because it's the third one where they meet here would have to be blue; so this one would be blue over here. well if this one is blue, and this
one is red, then this one over here also has to be green because these three are meeting at this point and that was our coloring rule - that they either
have to be all three different or the same. but if this one is green, and this one is green, then these two greens meet at this point so the third one would have to be the same color - remember all three different or all three the same - so we'd have to have green here, but that contradicts that this guy was red. so we see that this one is not three colorable. by this simple technique
of studying three color ability we have proved that the trefoil and the figure eight knot are not the same, because one of them is three colorable, one of them is not three colorable. what we haven't succeeded at proving is we haven't yet proved that the figure eight knot doesn't unknot because all we know about the figure eight knot is that it's not three colorable and that happened also to be true about the trivial knot. so we haven't yet proved that these two guys are different. we've proven that they're all different from the trefoil, but we haven't yet succeeded at showing. but i could generalize this trick in a slightly more elaborate way for say five colors, and if i use five colors this one would turn out to be not five colorable and this one would turn out it is five colorable. and so the upshot would be that these two are in fact different. so by doing three colorability and adding on a further level of study to this, the five colorability, i would indeed have succeeded at proving that all three of these are different
knots. in particular there's no way to unknot the trefoil or the figure eight knot by- without cutting it. and also there's no way to move as we saw already the three- the trefoil into the figure eight; they can't get from one
to the other just by continuous motions. quite good for elementary - just, coloring around, don't you think? (brady: just because this one) (is three colorable, and that one's - i mean) (that just seems- and that one's not 
three colourable-) because the point is that after i fill in the steps that i skipped over, right, or- which i took an example of but didn't do the others of- that the point is that if a knot is three colorable, as i do these reidemeister moves and move it around and change the number of crossings, the property of three colorability is maintained all the way through. 
for example, when i did the pigtail and i put in a pigtail, it was compatible - in fact i adapted the rule so as to achieve this property, and modified my original guess. and so if this is three colorable, as i move it around continuously without coloring, 
without cutting it; though i change the number of crossings and may make it like the kiddies thing, fantastically more complicated looking before i try to simplify it, nevertheless at the very end three colorability - if it was three colorable at the beginning it will be three colorable the end. if it was not three colorable at the beginning it will not be three colorable at the end. and so the fact that the one is three colorable and the other is not three colorable, with the given projection, means that there's no way to move this to that. [preview] and you can understand colorability better by developing the theory of polynomial invariance of knots. specifically there's an old polynomial invariant that goes back about 100 years. the polynomial invariant for this knot turns out to be delta of x - the alexander polynomial - is x squared minus x plus one.