- so, i saw this video in my suggested. it was about ultra-ever dry which is apparently as
good at repelling water as i am women. look at how water just runs off this paper and how this tissue, which i remind you should
be absorbing the water, is instead playing god. instantly a million
questions flood in my mind. like what happens if you put this on a boat and put the boat in water? or, can i put this on my
feet and walk on water? these were just things i needed to know. so, i went to amazon and
i bought a couple gallons of this stuff and this was the result. so, like any logical person, the first question i needed answered was if i spray this stuff on my underwear can i just pee in them all
the time and it stay dry? chris, some of my pee's
still on the underwear. - you've got some pretty thick pee. - what do we do? hey, it never happened. yeah, i don't think we sprayed both sides. - look at that. - next, i wanted to test a clip everdry had in their video. - this shirt is covered in everdry. this designer supreme shirt isn't. - ugh. thanks. - wait, no, they only did
the front of his shirt. not the back. i'm super disgusting. come up here. - i have grass in me. why do i have grass in me? you can see a clear difference. this is the front. so, it's got the water drops
on, but they'll come off. and then this is the back. look at my tie though. my tie's spot on, here. we'll just dunk the whole tie. that actually is pretty cool - splash back 'cause i
think my mouth was open. paper towel covered
ieverdry versus ketchup. it's not working like it did in the video. i don't know what demonic
crap they're doing, but my ever drive must be broke. now, if you guys have ever
used a paper towel before, now, if you guys have ever
used to pay for towel before, not quite sure why i thought some of you have never used
a paper towel before. of course, they've fucking
used a paper towel before. you know it absorbs water. look at this. it's not absorbing water. you can throw it. this is a roll of paper towels. wow, it's actually not really that wet. waterproofing my underwear
worked so well that when i pee in the middle of the night,
it just runs up my bedsheets. so, of course, now we have
to waterproof my bedsheets. in this clip, we covered
a cotton ball and everdry and i think chris summed it up perfectly. - that one's pretty cool. - we then took a bagel, which oddly enough looks like a butthole and waterproofed it. - i feel like a bagel would be kind of waterproof anyway. - yeah. afterwards we waterproof a wallet and i just realized leather is waterproof, so that was unnecessary. chris, you're fired. i wanna dump this cinder
block in this water, but it's really heavy. - you rang? - yeah, that was my viking call. hey, can you dip this in
the water tank for me? it's like, it's really heavy,
but you're like a big boy. ah! now we lift it out. and look, that's the part with everdry. that's the part without it. - hm.
- all right, mr. viking, you can go. - okay.
- remember guys, if you ever need a viking, just go... then we waterproofed my
merch because apparently i haven't plugged it in the
last five videos and yeah, not plugging your merch equals no sales. yeah, that's been pretty rough. - did you miss? - hey, it worked. - that's where the
everdry is and look at it just running down and
not sticking like it is. holy crap, the everdry
comes all the way back here. - yeah. - jake, you got it on as yeezys. - no, did i really?
- yeah. - this is like the fifth time
you've hit me with an egg. - keep going, oh my god. - oh. - i don't think the everdry's working on the side of the van. - here, let me try. i missed. - the everdry's over there.
- oh, it's where? - it's in the back of the van.
- oh, okay. ah, crap, i missed again. - see right there?
- oh. - it's not right there.
- okay. - it's not right there.
- okay, okay. - it's more like right there.
- gotcha. - and you were throwing like right there. - gotcha, gotcha. so, i shouldn't be throwing right there. be throwing right here, right? - yeah. ah, crap, i got my pants wet. here, chris, can you give me that towel? - you should have
waterproofed your pants, man. - yeah, i know. wait a minute. this towel's waterproof. how am i supposed to clean my pants, but when the towel's waterproof? it doesn't do anything. look, water just bounces off. well, i guess my pants will forever be wet 'cause every towel here is waterproof. - i don't think your
hands waterproof either. your hand got more wet than the towel. - oh yeah, look at that. non-waterproof, look at that crappy hand. there's nothing good
about this hand at all. - in that clip, we were
talking about chris's hand which clearly meant we
were about to start talking about him moisturizing. and now i'm sitting here listening to two grown men talking
about chris moisturizing. and i'm just wondering where
i went wrong with life. so, in everdry's official video they did this thing where
they outlined their logo in everdry and then shot paint at it and it looked really cool. so, i thought i'd redo it in my office by spelling out
shop mrbeast on the wall. - hey look, it worked.
- no, chris, it didn't work. not quite sure what the
fuck you're looking at. we then made the big mistake
of giving two man childs paint and a hot dog. - flying wiener. stop playing "fortnite." we have to make videos. - dude, every youtuber
makes "fortnite" videos. just gimme a couple months to get good and we'll be fine, way easier. way easier than what we currently do. - i'm sick of it, dude. you know what?
- i just wanna be like every youtuber. yeah, i knew you would do that. that's why i waterproofed my keyboard. watch this. - it's still like pretty **** up. - well darn, i guess i can't
play anymore "fortnite." - now we have to go... - all right, i guess i'll make videos. i know a lot of you guys
out there are atheists and for all of you atheists,
please explain this. this is how a paper normally reacts when it's hit with water. pretty stereotypical. now, watch this. if it's a piece of paper with pewdiepie on it, look how it reacts. it just bounces right off of him. so atheist out there, explain that. - hm.
- explain it! it's like it never happened. this is how a burrito
normally reacts to water. as you can see, it's just, yeah. see, this is a terrible burrito. this is how a chipotle
burrito reacts to water. - it's kind of the same. - we waterproofed this right, guys? why, does waterproofing
not work on burritos? now we have burrito on the floor. - there's so much rice everywhere. - they ask you how you are and you just have to say that you're fine. and you're not really fine,
but you just can't get into it because they
would never understand. - a lot of you guys are really young. so, here's a recommendation for all you parents watching
with your young kids. see, instead of changing
their diapers all the time, just waterproof them and you can just use the same diaper forever. - nice. - chris, my work gloves are kind of dry, will you moisturize them for me? - i'm a moisturizing expert. - yeah?
- here we go. - okay, all right.
- there you go. - chris, the moisture, it just falls off. it appears my gloves are waterproof which means they're moisture proof. what do we do? - moisturize the stress away. - give it to me, boss.
- here. - my gloves are still waterproof. - my hands are covered in moisturizer. - but mine aren't.
- i'm super moisturized. - but i'm not, oh. all right, that was dumb. we then proceeded to
torture alexa by dipping her in water as punishment for
not reordering my wet wipes. oh, whoa! - yeah, all right, let's
see how long it stays on. - wait, alexa's waterproof?
- no. - oh god. this is not a good idea. - that's pretty cool. dude. alexa, don't give up. bro. - there's a reason jeff bezos is the richest man in the world. - yeah.
- google home on the other hand was
listening to a conversation i had one time in my living room and now i'm on the fbi watch list. so, take this, google home. - so, this one literally will not come on. if we unplug it, plug this
back in, watch it, wait for it. - up next, we have a
metaphor for you guys. these boots are the beast gang paulers. and this water is the haters. the haters, they just brushed right off. the haters can't touch
us, beast gang paulers. we just dab all over 'em. we're the strongest, most
lit-est family on the internet. we look at that. the haters are trying
to touch us, bullock. even when the haters
pile up, we just do that. boom, they're gone. - [ those boots really don't like mountain dew, do they? - nope. oh gosh. while we have this sacrifice going, i think it's time we replace our memes. - let's replace our memes. hiro.
- let's burn our old memes. donating to attractive twitch streamers. it's saying i was milking it. am i gonna die? - memes are fun to burn. oh.
- yeah. our second meme that must
be burnt is pewdiepie. - it says meme review in japanese. - be gone, pewdiepie. - it's smokey in here. - i know, is our fire
alarm gonna, oh wait, we don't have one. - we disabled our fire alarm 'cause we do so many indoor videos. - record it.
- our next meme is, is this good content? we all know it's good content. let's put the fire right
on pewdiepie's face. adding 'nt a word doesn't make it funny. pewdiepie reviewed it which
means now the meme's dead. so, this one really has to burn. trying not to breathe and die. see, look guys, this tissue is waterproof. - look at that. - we're gonna use the waterproof
tissue to put out the fire. oh, take that fire. okay, hand it to me. sorry, i'm not trying to die. - well this went from a normal video to let's burn stuff indoors and yeah. - the moment you've all been waiting for. we put water repellent on the bottom of these dundee flip flops. millions of years of
evolution have led us to this. will water repellent on my
feet allow me to walk on water? aw. - maybe you should walk
out a little further. maybe it just needs to take-
- maybe, yeah. oh god, i'm losing my foot. where'd it go? oh god. okay, all right. well i lost my flip flop. oh i lost that one. all right. well i'm just gonna walk in defeat. - ha ha, da feet. [music] mrbeast oh [music] [music] mrbeast oh [music] [music] mrbeast oh [music]