it is december 2020 and the bank of japan is now 
the single biggest shareholder of japanese stocks.   over the span of a decade, the 
central bank bought hundreds   of billions of dollars in tokyo-listed stock etfs   as part of its monetary easing programs, 
sitting on a handsome $130 billion profit. you might be forgiven for wondering if it is 
normal for a central bank to buy "stonks".   it has never been done before in this 
way. yet as japan threatened to enter   another era of economic stagnation and deflation,   the bank decided to go where no bank has 
gone before in an effort to fight the future. in this video, i want to dive into a 
controversial, groundbreaking program   and the market-distorting effects that it has 
wrought on the world's third largest economy. in 1985, japan and four other 
countries signed the plaza accord.   this agreement depreciated the united 
states dollar against the japanese yen   and the german deutsche mark in an effort to 
improve the competitiveness of american exports.   over the next two years after its signing, the 
dollar lost 51% of its value against the yen. japan entered the plaza accord to avoid 
having its goods tariffed and locked   out of the american market. america faced 
domestic political pressure to do something   about its exchange rates and to reduce 
the trade deficit. for what it is worth,   the japanese-american trade deficit continues 
to this day so it is not like the americans   got what they wanted. but in japan, the 
accord nevertheless had significant effects. the yen's appreciation plunged the japanese 
manufacturing sector into recession. in response   to this, the bank of japan loosened monetary 
lending policies and lowered interest rates.   this cheap money was supposed to be 
funneled into productive efforts like   building factories and the like. instead, it went 
into stock, real estate, and asset speculation. this is when japanese real estate and stocks 
reached their peak price level. when prices in   central tokyo were such that the tokyo imperial 
palace was valued to be worth more than all the   property in california. when japanese bought 
pebble beach, a golf club, for $850 million. the bubble popped hard in early 
1990s when the bank of japan   tightened lending regulations and monetary policy.   banks were left with over 90 trillion yen 
worth of terrible non-performant loans. what came next is generally referred to 
as the "lost decade". a period of time   from 1991 to 2010 where average 
real growth was barely above 1%.   japan entered a long period 
of economic stagnation. we are not going to dive into all of the 
effects of the lost decade and how to get   out of it. there are more than enough theories. 
but in general what we should come to understand   is that the government racked up debt trying 
to stimulate the economy, with little effect. in 1998, the bank of japan received 
formal independence from the government   in conducting monetary policy. in response 
to the economy's consistent refusal to grow,   policy got increasingly ... creative. in the 2000s, the bank of japan began what 
is known as "quantitative easing". the bank   would directly purchase japanese bonds of various 
maturities to raise bond prices and lower yields.   they targeted an interest rate of zero. 
the policy lasted for a few years. the effects of this work are well studied 
but have not come to a general conclusion   as to whether or not it "helped". 
they do seem to agree that qe lowered   lending costs and interest rates for 
banks, spurring them to lend more.   but the quality of the borrowers was 
debatable and tend to be riskier than   most. america too would do a few rounds of qe 
later in the decade with similar controversy. in 2010, the bank of japan expanded this 
qe program to include corporate bonds and   longer-duration financial assets. rates in 
the short term had already gone to zero and   the benefits of buying more japanese government 
bonds were minimal. thus for the first time, the   bank of japan began to buy corporate stocks and 
reits as part of its quantitative easing program. so what is the central bank's intention in 
purchasing stocks? with this new program,   the boj hoped to stimulate 
"risk-taking" amongst people and firms. only 10% of japanese people at the time 
held stocks as compared to 36% in the us   and'% in the eurozone. the majority of japanese 
literally just own cash and bonds. if they were to   own stocks and see the value of those stocks 
rise, then they can feel richer and be more   willing to spend. their increased spending equals 
increased income within the japanese economy. on the corporate side, japanese 
companies are famously conservative.   having the central bank buy their stock would 
in theory make it cheaper to raise capital.   cheaper capital theoretically would 
spur them on to do and invest more. central banks have bought stocks before, but 
only as a measure of financial stability.   for instance, the bank of japan bought stocks 
from failing banks twice during financial crises   in 2002 and 2009 to shore up their cash 
reserves and keep them from insolvency. and the hong kong monetary authority purchased $17   billion worth of hong kong stocks and 
bonds during the 1998 financial crisis. i recounted this event in my video 
about hong kong and george soros.   go check it out. after the 
crisis had passed, the hkma   sold the stocks it bought to private 
investors, doubling its investment. those two precedents are modest compared to what 
was coming up next. no bank has ever bought stocks   in volume to try and stimulate the economy. the 
bank of japan was about to get weird with it. at first, the plan capped out at about 450 
billion yen worth of stock purchases and   was to end in december 2011. that is about $4.5 
billion usd. considering that the total market   capitalization of the tokyo stock exchange is $5.7 
trillion, that was just a drop in the bucket?. through 2011 and into 2012, the boj increased the 
cap four-fold to 2.1 trillion yen or about $19   billion. japanese government bond yields fell. 
but the yen continued to appreciate in value as   compared to the us dollar, reaching an exchange 
rate of 80 yen to the dollar. this is despite a   series of currency market interventions by 
central banks and the ministry of finance. this stronger yen counterbalanced the looser 
monetary effects brought on by lower bond yields.   it made japanese exports more expensive, hurting 
manufacturers in this export-heavy economy.   mild deflation continued and the 
prospect of 2% inflation seemed a dream. in december 2012, shinzo abe won election as 
japan's prime minster. as part of his campaign   promises, abe would put up $120 billion 
worth of emergency stimulus spending and   force the boj to perform unprecedented monetary 
moves to fight deflation and weaken the yen. after his win, the yen quickly deflated in value, 
falling from 84 yen to the dollar in december 2012   to 95 in march 2013. stock prices began to 
rise in anticipation of big changes afoot. in april 2013, abe appointed haruhiko kuroda 
as the governor of the boj. kuroda was tasked   with carrying out the monetary aspects of 
abe's economic policy, nicknamed abenomics. kuroda came through and announced the 
qqe policy - quantitative and qualitative   monetary easing policy. the goal would be 
to go where no bank has ever gone before:   to reduce the price of risk across all assets,   lower interest rates in the long term, 
and stimulate the people into buying more. the boj would do this by expanding the 
economy's entire monetary base in the amount   of 60-70 trillion yen annually. that is $540-630 
billion usd, injected into the economy each year. abenomics did show some promise early 
on. inflation spiked from 2013 into 2014.   but the decade also saw disruptions 
that struck at the economy's health.   for instance in 2014, the japanese 
government raised a consumption tax from 5%   to 8% and that significantly impacted the 
economy. in response, the boj bought yet   more bonds and tripled its buying of etfs. 
abe had to delay a second tax hike to 2019. four years into the policy, the bank's purchases 
were warping the stock market on the whole.   such distortions forced it 
to more specifically target   its purchases. they diversified from the 
nikkei 225, adding the nikkei 400, the topix,   and then etfs tracking companies making 
"investments in physical and human capital". the intention was to reward companies making 
suitable investments for growth. examples include   the nomura enterprise value allocation and the 
daiwa msci japan human & physical investment etf. the companies in these etfs are 
some of japan's biggest and most   prominent companies. they include toyota, 
nintendo, tokyo electron, and fanuc. going into 2020, the boj had 40 trillion yen or 
$360 billion of stocks on their balance sheet.   the bank's holdings accounted for over 
5% of the country's entire stock market.   for one out of every two tokyo-listed companies,   the boj was a top 10 shareholder. 
it was fanuc's biggest shareholder. and then came the pandemic and 
everything went crazy after that.   direct stimulus from governments all over the 
world fueled the nikkei 225 to new heights. in response to the economic crisis from the virus, 
the boj raised the etf purchases' ceiling yet   again to a theoretical limit of 12 trillion 
yen, or $112 billion. for what it is worth,   they fell short of that ceiling in 2020 - buying 
only 7.1 trillion yen or $64 billion worth. the program has yet to formally end 
but it does seem to be slowing down.   the boj seems to be at the very least 
fine-tuning. with that being said,   in march 2021 the boj purchased nearly 300 
billion yen or 2.7 billion usd worth of etfs. so you are probably looking for 
an answer to the big question:   did it work? did people feel richer? did 
companies invest more? did it help the economy? the reality is that evaluating 
policy is complicated.   especially one that lasted ten years 
across a number of business cycles.   japan has a 100 million people and the third 
biggest economy in the world. it's complicated. let us start with the most desired effect:   inflation. looking at inflation from 
2011 to 2019 short of the pandemic,   it looks like the economy saw more inflation 
than deflation during the ten year period. real gdp growth over the same time period is 
also kind of heartening. if you throw out the   pandemic years of late 2019 and 2020 then 
you can see that the japanese economy grew. and if you chart the etf purchases against 
the stock return of the nikkei 225,   it seems to be that the purchases helped grow 
and prop up the market's returns over the past   few years. stock prices went up. presumably, 
some japanese stock holders got richer. furthermore, the 2010s saw challenging global 
economic conditions in the us and the eurozone.   that as well as the aforementioned consumption 
tax hike in 2014 could have caused real,   permanent damage to the japanese economy. and 
of course, we can't forget about the pandemic. one can argue that were it not for the 
boj's unprecedented monetary actions,   things could have ended up much worse. to 
have shown even this tiny bit of growth   throughout this tricky time period, 
you might see this as an absolute win. but now we need to look at the drawbacks and   the cost of nearly a decade of your 
central bank going yolo on stocks. is it okay that the bank of japan is the 
country's single biggest corporate stock holder?   there are a few problems associated 
with this activity that we can foresee.   actually, more than a few. i got five. sit 
down because this is going to be a long one. first has to do with corporate governance. 
japanese companies are not exactly known for   taking care of their shareholders. there is a lack 
of transparency on how the business is being run   and shareholder money is spent. shareholders have 
few ways to replace management when things are   not being run well. management compensation 
is less tied to how well the stock performs. the bank of japan, despite being the 
single biggest holder of japanese stocks,   does not currently exercise its voter rights. on 
one hand, that reinforces management's power over   the company. but what if it were to decide that 
it wanted to? we criticize the communist party of   china for getting deeply involved in the workings 
of private companies. would this not be similar? second is the problem of price discovery, a 
criticism more generally tied to the idea of etfs.   as etfs have grown more popular amongst investors,   there comes the risk of "freezing" the relative 
valuations of a country's biggest companies. the etf's basket of stocks is determined by an 
index, generally ranked by market size but not   always. so as more etfs are created, more of 
the biggest stocks get bought - simply because   they are already big or in a specific 
index. this creates market distortions. for example, fast retailing, the company behind 
uniqlo, is over-represented on the nikkei 225   as compared to the topix with an 11% weight. 
the boj's purchases of the nikkei 225 turned   the clothing company, which only made $18 
billion usd in 2020, into a $80b giant. its founder tadashi yanai is japan's 
richest man with a $40 billion fortune.   when the boj announced that it would 
phase out purchasing nikkei 225 etfs   for the topix in march 2021, fast 
retailing lost 6% of its value. the third problem is: what is the bank of japan 
going to do with all of its stocks? are they going   to hold them forever? if they sell, are they 
going to take down the whole market with them? the anticipation of etf sales down the line likely 
dampens the effects of buying them in the first   place. sure you might feel richer right now, but 
all that wealth is just on paper right now. thus   far, the bank has not announced anything with 
regards to its future plans for those etfs. fourth! i talked about the very weak inflation 
and economic growth. what if it wasn't because   of the stock buying? studies of the policy up to 
2019 find that japanese publicly listed companies   neither spend more on r&d nor grew their 
sales because the bank bought their stocks. in fact, the price to earnings ratio of the index   actually declined throughout the time 
period despite the higher stock prices.   one can argue that the market was more out 
of favor entering 2019 than it was in 2011. shares jumped a whole lot in 2020 and 2021 
but it is more likely that jump was due to   worldwide stimulus packages. every stock, 
bond, crypto, whatever went up in 2020. public companies did sell shares into the stock 
market to take advantage of the favorable stock   environment. but they opted to just keep the 
cash on their books - saving for a rainy day. last but most concerning. i did a video about 
taiwan's low labor wages. people yelled at me.   well, japan has a similar problem too. 
as befitting an economy that sputtered   through the last ten years, wages and 
incomes have stagnated. today's japanese   workers make less than they did 30 years ago. 
monetary easing likely worsens this effect. i wish i can talk more on this, but that is 
for another video. but i wanted to at least   mention it. we focus so much on companies that 
we forget about the people. we should not. the bank of japan's actions and results should be 
studied because it foretells what other central   banks might do in the near future. the boj ran 
quantitative easing during the early 2000s.   the federal reserve and other central banks did 
it in 2008 during the global financial crisis. and then in may 2020, the federal reserve took 
another step towards what the bank of japan did.   they started buying etfs too. but not of stocks. 
of corporate bonds. bonds relating to downgraded   companies suffering from the pandemic. it was 
the first time the american central bank has   ever done this. and if you ask me, corporate 
bonds are not that far away from stocks. the japanese and american economies are very 
different from each other. so what might work   for one country might not work for another. for 
japan, this stock buying spree seems to have   had a limited effect on the country's actual 
economic prospects. there was something but   it did not last very long. the usa should think 
about that when considering its next action step.