cities, those dense congregations of people 
and buildings, have made possible economies   and lifestyles our early ancestors could 
never have imagined. whether you thrive in   or despise the concrete jungle, there's no 
denying its benefits. putting all the people,   houses, jobs, stores, offices, and diversions 
in one place gives us humans opportunities   that wouldn't be possible if we all lived agrarian 
lifestyles spread out across the countryside. but,   there are some negative consequences that come 
from cramming so much into such a small area.   at no time is this more clear than when it rains. 
managing the flow of runoff through a city is an   immensely complex challenge that affects us in so 
many ways from public safety to property rights,   from the environment to the health and 
welfare of citizens. hey, i'm grady, and   this is practical engineering. on today's episode, 
we're talking about urban stormwater management. this video is sponsored by 
curiosity stream and nebula.   get 26% off at the link in the 
description. more on that later! the water cycle is one of the most basic science 
lessons we learn. so basic, in fact, that it's   easy to forget how relevant and important it is 
to our lives. take a look out your window when   it's raining, even when it's raining hard, and 
it doesn't seem that significant. some of the   rain soaks into the ground, some gets taken 
up by plants, some gets caught in puddles,   and some runs off downhill, usually into the 
street. one of the biggest challenges in a   city is the proportions of all these different 
paths the water can take. all those streets,   sidewalks, buildings, and parking lots cover the 
ground with impervious surfaces, which means that   instead of water infiltrating, it runs off toward 
creeks and rivers, swelling them faster and higher   and filling them with more pollution. one 
of the biggest impacts on the environment   of building anything is its effect on how water 
moves above and below the ground during storms.   multiply that to the scale of a city and you 
can see how remarkably we modify our landscape.   instead of acting like a sponge to absorb 
rainwater as it falls, urban watersheds act   like funnels, gathering and concentrating 
rainwater runoff. in this video, i want to   walk you through some of the infrastructure 
cities use to manage this massive challenge   and a few new ideas in stormwater management 
that are slowly taking hold in urban areas. like most of the biggest challenges of 
building and maintaining a civilization,   the negative impacts from adding impervious cover 
don't befall the property owner doing the adding,   but rather the people downstream. just 
like dumping pollution into the river   carries away to the next guy, it's 
easy to make bad drainage decisions   into someone else's problem. that's why most large 
cities have rules about how to manage runoff and   flooding when new buildings or neighborhoods 
get built. drainage reviews are just a normal   part of the process of obtaining a building 
permit these days. if you live in a major city,   just do a search for your local drainage manual 
to see the kinds of things that are required.   increased runoff has been a problem since people 
started living in cities in the first place, and   the first way we handled it was simply to get the 
water out and away as quickly as possible. that's   because runoff creates flooding, and flooding 
causes billions of dollars of property damage   and many lives each year. this solution is in the 
name we still use for how cities manage storms:   "drainage." when it rains or when it pours, 
we try to give that runoff somewhere to go. most cities are organized so the streets serve as 
the first path of flow for rainfall. individual   lots are graded with a slope toward the street 
so that water flows away from buildings where it   would otherwise cause problems. the standard city 
street has a crown in the center with gutters on   either side for water to flow. this keeps the 
road mainly dry and safe for vehicle travel   while providing a channel to convey runoff. 
but the streets aren't the end of the line.   eventually, the road will reach a 
natural low point and start back uphill   or will have collected so much runoff 
that it can't hold it all in the gutter. at this point, the water needs a dedicated 
system to carry it away. in the past,   it was common to simply put all the runoff from 
the streets directly into the sewage system.   it's a well-developed network of pipes flowing 
by gravity out of the city... why not use it for   stormwater too? well, actually there's a really 
good reason not to do that. at the end of each   sanitary sewer system is a wastewater treatment 
plant that was almost certainly not designed to   process a massive influx of combined sewage and 
stormwater runoff at the whims of mother nature.   in the worst cases, these plants have to release 
untreated wastewater directly into waterways when   it is too much to be stored or processed. that's 
why most cities now use municipal separate storm   sewer systems, usually abbreviated as ms4s. these 
are networks of ditches, curbs, gutters, sewer   pipes, and outfalls solely dedicated to moving 
runoff from everywhere in the city to the natural   waterways that eventually carry it away. these 
inlets aren't just places for clowns to hang out,   they usually represent a direct path between 
the street and the nearest creek or river.   just to be clear, there's not usually any 
type of treatment happening along the way.   these sewers are not for waste. whatever 
you put into the storm sewer system   goes directly into a waterway, so 
please don't dump stuff in there. it's easy to see why cities try so hard to get 
stormwater out as fast as possible if you look   at the floodplain. this is just the area most 
likely to be inundated during a major flood.   land is one of the most valuable things 
within a city, but its value goes way down   if it is exposed to flood risk. no one wants to 
build something on land that could be flooded.   that being said, humans are notoriously bad at 
assessing risk, and no matter where you look,   you're likely to find development near creeks and 
rivers. getting the water out quickly reduces the   depth of flooding and thus shrinks the floodplain. 
that's a big reason why you see natural waterways   in cities enlarged, straightened, and lined 
with concrete. you can see in my demo,   for the same amount of flow, the channel with 
lots of vegetation moves water more slowly   and thus at a higher depth. the channel with 
smooth sides gets the water moving faster,   and thus reduces the depth of flooding. but, 
channelization isn't all it's cut out to be. it's   ugly for one. no one wants a big, dirty concrete 
channel as a part of their surroundings. but,   channelization also worsens flooding downstream 
for the next guy and degrades the habitat of   the original waterway. it didn't take long for 
cities to realize you can't just keep widening   and lining channels to keep up with the 
increased runoff from more and more development. that's why most cities now require developers 
to take responsibility for their own   increase in runoff. by and large, that 
means on-site storage for stormwater.   retention and detention ponds act like 
mini-sponges, absorbing all the rain   that rushes off the buildings, streets, and 
parking lots and releasing it slowly back   into waterways. this shaves off the peak 
of the runoff with the goal of reducing it   back down to or less than it was before all 
those buildings and parking lots got built.   they also help reduce pollution by slowing down 
the water so suspended particles can settle out. onsite storage is a pretty effective 
solution, and one you'll see   everywhere if you're paying attention. but it 
still treats stormwater as a waste product,   something to be gotten rid of. the reality is 
that rain is a resource, and natural watersheds   do a lot more than just getting rid of 
it. they serve as habitat for wildlife,   they naturally clean runoff with vegetation, they 
divert rain into the ground to recharge aquifers,   and they reduce flooding by slowing down the water 
at the source rather than letting it quickly wash   away and concentrate. that's why many cities 
are moving toward ways to replicate and recreate   natural watershed functions within developed 
areas. in the u.s., this is called low-impact   development and it includes strategies like 
rain gardens, vegetated rooftops, rain barrels,   and other ways to bring more harmony between the 
built environment and its original hydrologic and   ecological functions. it can also include better 
management of the floodplain by using it for   purposes less vulnerable to flooding like parks 
and trails. one low-impact strategy is permeable   pavement, and i have a video just on that topic 
if you want to check it out after this one. one thing i have to mention when talking about 
flooding is vehicle crossings. any location where   a waterway and a road cross paths, whether it's 
a bridge, a culvert, or a low water crossing,   there's always a chance of flooding 
getting so bad that it overtops the road.   if you ever see water over the top of a roadway, 
just turn around. half of all flood-related deaths   happen when someone tries to drive a car or 
truck through water over a road. if you can't   see the road you have no idea how deep the water 
is, and even if you can, it only takes a small   amount of swift water to push a vehicle down into 
a river or creek. water is heavy. even when it's   flowing slowly, floodwaters can impart a massive 
force on a vehicle. even if it didn't, most cars   will float once the water reaches the floorboard 
anyway. some cities have warning systems to help   block roads when they're overtopped by floods, 
but it's not something you should count on.   it just isn't worth the risk. find another 
way. as they say: turn around, don't drown. just like cities represent a colossal alteration 
of the landscape and thus the natural water cycle,   we're also going through a colossal shift in how 
we think about rainfall and stormwater and how we   value the processes of natural watersheds. look 
carefully as you travel through your city and   you'll notice all the different pieces and parts 
of infrastructure that help manage water during   storm events. you'll see plenty of ways to get 
water out and away from buildings and streets,   but you hopefully also notice elements 
of low impact design - ways of harnessing   and benefitting from stormwater on-site, 
treating it like the resource it truly is. if you're here at the end of this video, i have 
to assume that you spend your valuable free time   learning new things about the world. 
you also probably don't have time to   listen to a bunch of ads, which is perfect 
because nebula doesn't have any. nebula is a   streaming service built by and for independent 
creators like minutephysics, real engineering,   wendover productions, and a bunch of others. it's 
a way for us to try new ideas and longer videos   that might not work on youtube. and, we're super 
excited to be partnering with curiositystream,   a service with thousands of documentaries and 
non-fiction titles on pretty much every subject   you can imagine. curiositystream loves independent 
creators and wants to help us grow our platform,   so they're offering free access to nebula 
when you sign up at curiositystream.com/   practicalengineering. there are a 
lot of streaming services right now,   and if you add them all up it would be hundreds of 
dollars a month. that's why this bundle is such an   awesome deal. for a short time, curiositystream is 
taking 26% off an annual plan - that's $15 a year   to get access to thousands of awesome 
documentaries on curiositystream   and everything on nebula as well. watch how the 
hubble telescope's images get created or a deep   dive into swiss watchmaking on curiositystream or 
watch tom scott pit other youtubers against each   other in his nebula-exclusive gameshow, money. 
it's a great way to support my channel and a whole   host of your other favorite educational creators. 
plus it's just a good deal. do us both a favor and   click that link in the description. thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think!