there is just something about spacex that really 
grabs people's attention. whether it is the elon   musk connection or the allure of space, the 
company has a thriving culture around it. the company's success and media praise 
has spurred on a bevy of competitors.   these are well covered in the media and i 
suggest you watch a few videos about them. but spacex has also spurred the 
chinese government and nation   into action as well. there are over a 
hundred chinese commercial aerospace   companies right now in the industry competing 
amongst each other to be china's spacex. in this video, we are going to look at the rapid 
development of china's private space industry. up until about 2014, all commercial space 
operations had been conducted under the   auspices of the government. china great 
wall corporation, founded 1980, was the sole   commercial organization authorized by the chinese 
government to provide commercial launch services. china great wall briefly worked alongside american 
companies like the hughes aircraft company in the   1990s on commercial projects. their launch 
service prices were around $30-55 million in   1990 dollars ($60 million to $110 million 
today). this pricing drastically undercut   the market by 50-75% and was criticized 
as being government subsidized dumping. the work china great wall did with hughes showed 
great potential for china's launch services   industry. but the company found itself shut out of 
the american market due to government sanctions.   they had been found to be diverting launch 
vehicle technology for weapons manufacture. the company thereafter found a niche 
market helping to launch satellites   for countries in the global south. since then 
they have won contracts from nigeria, bolivia,   venezuela and pakistan for 
various satellite launches.   many of these projects were funded with loans 
from china's various state development banks. in 2014, the state council issued its "guiding 
opinions on innovating investment and financing   mechanisms in key fields to encourage 
social investment". it for the first time   proposed the encouraging of private capital to 
participate in china's civil space architecture: > efforts shall be made to improve policies 
on the civilian remote sensing satellite data,   strengthen the government's procurement services,   encourage the private capital to be used to 
develop, launch and operate commercial remote   sensing satellites and provide market-oriented 
and professional services, and guide private   capital's participation in the construction of 
satellite navigation ground application system. the state council's "made in china 
2025" national plan encouraged and   guided the entrance of private capital into 
the aerospace industry "in an orderly manner".   so thus began china's search 
for a spacex competitor. china's first officially 
private space launch company   was lingke aerospace in 2014. 
better known as linkspace   (????). linkspace was founded by hu zhenyu, a 
graduate of south china university of technology. born in 1993, hu was inspired by spacex's 
success. the same year of the falcon one's   successful launch, hu set off explosives 
in his classroom and a few years later   organized a bunch of college rocket enthusiasts 
to launch a small rocket in inner mongolia. other companies soon entered the market, fueled 
by institutional investment money. prominent names   include i-space (????, literally "star glory" or 
"interstellar glory"), landspace (??, literally   "blue arrow") and onespace (????, or literally 
"zero one space"). the multiple names in both   english and chinese must confuse a lot 
of people. it certainly did for me. many of these companies come from 
china's impressive national space program   and bring a bevy of talents from it. as 
a result, over half of these companies   are headquartered in beijing but conduct 
their launches deeper within the country. for these space launch startups, what matters 
is not about your passion or your team or   your cool background. it is whether or not 
your rockets will fly. as of this writing,   two of the companies i mentioned have successfully 
launched rockets: i-space and onespace. the first suborbital attempt happened in 
april 2018 by i-space with their hyperbola-1s.   this single-stage solid-fuel suborbital 
rocket took off from a launch site in   hainan island and flew to a height of 67 miles. a few months later in may 2018, onespace 
launched its first rocket - the os-x0 or   chongqing liangjiang star. this nine-meter 
tall solid-propellant rocket launched from   a base in northwestern china and flew up 62 miles. this success in getting a rocket 
off the ground was a big milestone   and brought a great deal of publicity 
to china's private space market.   and there are a few companies that are 
seeking to service the suborbital niche.   onespace/zero one recently launched 
a suborbital rocket in february 2021. but the true step forward would be to actually 
reach orbit and place a satellite there.   this major stepping stone would prove a 
launch company's prowess and allow it to   secure funding from investors for the next 
round. spacex had achieved this milestone   ten years earlier in september 2008 with the 
fourth launch of its falcon 1 expendable rocket. as of this writing in march 2021, just 
one of china's private launch startups   has been able to launch a 
rocket that reached orbit. in october 2018, landspace/blue arrow tried to 
launch its zhuque-1 (also called the suzaku-1)   into orbit. this 19 meter tall rocket was a 
three-stage rocket using solid propellant. had this rocket achieved orbit, it would have been 
an amazing achievement. the first private rocket   to do so just four years after the industry's 
literal founding. but after a successful first   and second stage separation, the third stage 
experienced certain issues and the launch failed. undeterred, landspace/blue arrow is 
working on a new iteration of the rocket,   the 49 meter tall zhuque-2, planned for launch 
some time in 2021. the rocket is powered by four   "tianque" 80-ton liquid oxygen-methane 
engines, first demonstrated in 2019.   this choice of fuel is in line with the 
work done by spacex, who is using the same   approach for their spacex starship, and is 
reputed to be cheaper and cleaner-burning. onespace/zero one was the second 
company to try for an orbital launch   with their 19-meter tall rocket.   the os-m is a four-stage solid fuel rocket capable 
of launching a 205kg payload into low earth orbit. on march 27th 2019, the rocket lifted 
off at jiuquan satellite launch center,   inner mongolia, but a minute into 
the flight began veering off course.   the rocket and its payload was lost, a small, 10kg 
chinese nano-satellite (the chinese nickname for   such type of satellites is "cubic star") 
by a startup called beijing zerog labs. subsequently, onespace issued a statement with 
regards to its "rapid unscheduled disassembly".   45.68 seconds into the rocket's launch, the 
onboard gyroscope failed. the rocket's first   stage succeeded in separating, but 
it quickly lost its way and crashed. i-space would be the first company to successfully 
achieve orbital flight with their rocket. on july   25, 2019 the 20-meter tall solid-fuel hyperbola-1 
launched from inner mongolia and achieved orbit.   the rocket entered orbit and delivered several   payloads including two government 
satellites and a bottle of fine wine. in being the first to launch 
into suborbital flight,   to launch into orbital flight, and 
to deliver satellites into space,   i-space takes the lead in china's private flight 
industry. next for them would be the hyperbola-2,   a 28-meter tall, two-stage rocket 
capable of lifting up to 1.9 tons. the hyperbola-2 rocket will follow 
spacex and blue arrow and also use   a mix of liquid oxygen and methane. 
and like with spacex's latest rockets,   the first stage of the 
hyperbola-2 will be recoverable. even within china, people are wondering 
about the economic sustainability of this   skyrocketing market. it reflects some of the 
concerns analysts have had about the american   private space industry. a hundred space startups 
means that not all of them are going to survive. i-space, landspace, onespace, and linkspace are 
space startups that focus on satellite launches.   so like spacex, they invest a lot of capital and 
technological expertise into developing medium   and large scale rockets that can put satellites 
(and eventually people) into low earth orbit. for those companies, the goal 
is to tap the chinese domestic   satellite launch market - which is closed 
to competitors like spacex and blue origin   due to national security laws. with 
competition in small-sized launches intense,   industry-leading companies are seeking to 
climb the value chain to compete in the   more technically complicated space of 
medium-sized carriers - 1.5 to 4 tons. furthermore, there is the big question of 
"who is going to pay for these flights?"   if you look at the investments being made into 
the industry, the category receiving the most   venture money are trying to figure out "satellite 
applications" rather than "satellite launches".   in other words, trying to find a business 
model for the chinese private space industry. spacex is positioning their starlink internet 
service as a way to commercialize the   launch business and move it away from 
being so dependent on the government.   such a pathway is not feasible for the 
chinese, so many of them are focusing   on launching satellites that can report 
geospatial data and do remote sensing. the ties between china's private space industry 
and its national space program - of which the   chinese nation is extremely proud - are 
interesting to explore. unlike with the   united states, china's national 
aerospace program is capitalist. nasa, for better or worse, is a public 
organization with a congressional budget.   china in 1998 converted its space department into   state-owned entities directly owned by the 
national government: china aerospace space   and industry corporation (casic) and china 
aerospace science and technology (casc). the   venerable, aforementioned china great wall 
corporation is a subsidiary of the latter. these two state-owned companies have access to 
advantages befitting a core asset of the state,   but they still have to balance their books and 
make money. these startups are directly competing   against the country's kuaizhou and jielong 
lines of small solid-fuel carrier rockets. for these private companies 
to go from company founding   to successfully launching rockets 
into orbit in less than five years   implies some sort of "technology transfer" 
from the government. it has been pointed   out that these rocket designs bear at least a 
passing resemblance to decommissioned missiles. the question i am mulling over is whether 
or not this transfer happened as a matter   of government policy. is the government 
trying to "win" the private space industry?   or are experienced chinese rocket scientists tired 
of working at their big boring soe and bringing   special know-how over to their hot new rocket 
startup? my thinking leans more to the latter. i think even the chinese agree 
that when it comes to the private   space industry, spacex is the market leader.   spacex launched the first satellites into 
orbit, are launching a commercial model for   space flight with starlink, and are working 
on starship to send humans into deep space. right now, the private industry is running a 
race to close the gap with the chinese national   program. each failed flight raises a chorus of 
voices criticizing these private rocket startups   for wasting money and stealing 
resources from the national industry.   so these companies are under immense pressure. but the chinese private space industry is 
moving fast. whether or not they are being   helped (or hindered) by the government behind 
the scenes, they are rapidly covering ground.   those one hundred space startups will consolidate   and the top performers will soon begin 
making waves in the wider global industry.