- hey guys, this is austin. you should not buy the iphone 11 pro. let me explain. so some of you might know i've spent the last year using the iphone xr and there are a bunch of reasons for that but the main one has
absolutely been battery life. however, this year things have changed in a pretty major way. so, gone is the iphone xr, xs, and xs max, and now we have three new models. the iphone 11, the iphone 11
pro, and the iphone 11 pro max, because i guess they took some notes out of samsung's naming scheme (laughs). at their core, these new iphones are very similar to last generation. so you can think of the 11 very much as the follow up to the xr. i definitely appreciate the new colors but beyond the new dual camera setup, which i will talk a little
bit more about later, the rest of the design is very similar. so, you still get basically
the same displays. so no oled. it's not high resolution. that's fine for me, but there's some other
things that actually make the iphone 11 a
pretty compelling upgrade. of course, this does have the
new apple a13 bionic chip. now, it doesn't seem like it's
a major upgrade this year. in fact, the a12 is
already incredibly fast. but you are getting somewhere
in the neighborhood of about 20% cpu performance and significantly better
graphics performance. as always, they show some
really high-end games on stage, which are great, but the
main thing here really is the camera upgrade. something else that hasn't
changed is the notch. so all the iphone 11
models had, pretty much, the exact same massive notch
as the last generation. now, i mean yeah, i'm
not really a big fan. especially given that you can
get some very cheap phones for some very small notches. however, at least they've seen a couple of upgrades this year. including, better face
id, as well as, supposedly a much better forward facing
camera with a wider angle lens. but the real star of the
show here are the cameras on the back of the device. the iphone xr, alongside
i guess, the pixel 3 was one the very last phones that only had a single rear-facing camera. however, the iphone 11
bumps that up to two. so you have a improved sensor on the standard shooter, which was nice. but the main thing here, really is the new wide angle camera. now, with a 13 millimeter
wide angle focal length, essentially, you're getting double the amount of stuff in frame. footage in frame. things in frame (laughs) - [man off camera] there are
way better ways to say that. - i ran out of words. for a more visual representation, ken, can you please zoom all
the way in on the camera? this is what the standard
angle looks like. and then if you zoom out,
this is what the wide angle will look like. see, visual representation. gotta teach the kids. real talk, though. i'm a huge fan of having a
wide angle camera on a phone. i think it makes so much sense. in fact, one of the main
downsides with the xr compared to the xs, was it didn't have that telephoto camera. but as far as i'm concerned,
it's not all that useful, at least in the past. i'll talk a little bit
about some of the upgrades on that in a second. but, the main thing here is
that you're going to be getting a lot of major improvements
on the camera side. because, not only do you have
the improved standard camera and the wide angle, but you can seamlessly move between them. and one of my favorite things
they showed at the keynote, was you actually can, while you're taking a photo in standard,
you actually can see on the sides of the camera
app what will be in the wide. so it's very easy to
switch back and forth. they've also improved the portrait mode, especially considering that you can now use it on the ultra-wide camera. but the thing i'm really
excited to see is night mode. now, the iphone, for a
while, was really good on the camera front. but in the last couple
of years, feels like it has been passed by a lot
of devices such as the pixel. especially, the pixel really
pioneered the idea of doing a dedicated night mode. however, that is now a
feature in the iphone 11, the pro, the max, all that kind of stuff. and essentially, it works
in a very similar way. so of course, apple's using
all their wonderful buzz words and why it's so powerful,
and magical, and everything. but, the idea here is that
you should see significantly better low-light performance
on the iphone 11. and i mean, great, 'cause it needed it. the video also looks really impressive. so the iphone, as far as i'm concerned, already has the best video on
any smart phone out right now. and now you'll see better dynamic range. you'll also see better stabilization, and you can seamlessly
move between your wide, as well as, your standard cameras. all really good stuff,
especially considering it will go all the way up to 4k60. side note: the front
facing camera also now gets these same improvements. so you can shoot in 4k. you can also shoot slow
motion, known as a "slofie". aw, i said it. oh, i said (stammers) oh. wait, i mean... so yeah, slofie. there are some other nice benefits, including, you do now have wifi 6 onboard. as well as, one of the nice
things is the water resistance is a little bit better. so i believe it is now
two meters for 30 minutes. but, i mean, shouldn't
make a huge difference. essentially, my favorite
part of the iphone 11, sorry gather around here. get a little closer. is it is now cheaper. yes, my friends. the new iphone is cheaper than last year. so whereas the iphone xr started at $749, the new iphone 11 is $699. and honestly, that's a really good deal. especially when you compare
it to the iphone 11 pro. the iphone 11 pro and pro
max are very much followups to the iphone xs, as well as, the xs max. they're basically the same
size, and from the front, they're nearly identical. and when you flip them around to the back, there are some slight changes. including, the triple camera. now, yes, it is wonderful
to have triple cameras. but man, i can't help but think it's ugly. like especially when they showed that shot of the iphone 11 in the case. like, the 11 by itself with
two cameras looks fine. but the weird, triple camera thing, like, jony ive, man. he's gone for five minutes
and they've already done this. to be fair, i'm sure
everyone will get used to it in, like, three months,
but i just can't unsee it. just looks like the mickey mouse ears. i think the iphone 11, straight up, is a better looking phone. now, there are some new
advantages, as far as, the colors, to the pro. so there's this cool,
like, what do they call it? midnight green? - [man off camera] midnight green. - there's midnight green,
space gray, silver, and gold. the midnight green does
look cool, i will say. but, the camera's not
particularly impressive looking. now, there are some other advantages here. so, the display is better. you've got up to 1200 nits of brightness. they've now named it the xdr display to sell more mac pros, or something. - [man off camera] no, retina... - retina, wait no sorry,
it's the super retina xdr. because, of course, it is. but importantly, it is also
now more energy efficient. according to apple, it is 15% better. and that, actually, should
make a big difference for battery life. because with the previous
generation of iphones, those oled displays used a
lot of power, even at idle. so thankfully, it looks like they done, at least, something to kind of fix that. fix that, fix that. battery life, actually, is one of the bigger advantages going
up to these new models. so while the xr vs. 11 isn't
huge, it's only an extra hour of battery life on the 11. however, the xr already had
phenomenal battery life, so i'm certainly not complaining there. however, the pro models
are leagues better. so when you look at the xs vs. the pro, you're getting four
hours more battery life. now, that sounds super impressive, however, the battery life
was terrible on the xs, so that's probably getting it, probably, closer to ,
like, the xr/11 range. and when you go from the iphone xs max to the iphone 11 pro max, you're getting five
hours more battery life. it's gonna take me so long
to get that name right. iphone 11 pro max. real talk though. batter life is great,
huge fan of battery life. and honestly, the iphone xr, i continued to use it for a year. purely because, it is, by far, the best battery on any iphone. so the fact that the 11
is getting an upgrade, as well as, the pro seem to be
at least on that same plane, is a huge, huge win. but really, what is
separating the iphone 11 pro from the standard 11 is that third camera. so in addition to the ultra-wide camera and the standard wide angle,
you do have the telephoto. now, it is only a 2x
telephoto, as opposed to a 3x or more on a lot of
other devices right now. but it's a nice spread. essentially, it gives you a 13 millimeter equivalent, 26 and 52. and all of the stuff was being able to use two cameras and video
and photos on the 11, comes across with all
three cameras on the pro. i've actually not been
a huge fan of telephoto on previous iphones, mostly because it just really wasn't very good. it had a fairly low f2.8 aperture. and, generally speaking,
especially in lower light it looks trash compared
to the main camera. however, this here is a
much wider f2 aperture, which should get it much, much closer to that wide angle camera. and on top of that, there's
also a new deep fusion feature, which essentially, will take four stills before you hit the shutter button. one long exposure when you
hit it, and then four after. and merge them all in less than a second, to what should be a
very high quality image. however, this is something
we'll have to test later, because it is coming in a
software update this fall. so it won't be ready for launch. but, generally speaking, the camera does look to be a major upgrade this year. but that's pretty much
it as far as upgrades. which brings me to the
main point of this video. the iphone 11 is simply a better
choice this year, i think. so let's go over what
you don't get this year. so there's no usb-c. all the phones use lightning. there's no higher refresh rate display, which would be really nice. especially compared to things like the oneplus or the rog phone. there's no apple pencil support. and surprisingly there's also no bilateral wireless charging. very similar to what you
can get on samsung devices where you can charge something
like an air pod or even like another phone using the rear charger. that is not here on the iphone 11, even though it was very much rumored to be coming to this
generation of iphones. there's also no 5g, which
really isn't a huge surprise. however, a lot of other
flagships are integrating 5g, so you'll have to wait
another year for that. and on top of all of this,
they've actually removed 3d touch from all of
the iphones this year. now, the xr did lose it last year, so it's been replaced with haptic touch. which just means you
tap and hold to pull up, like, your cursor or whatever. it's fine, it works just fine. but it's not really a huge upgrade. in fact, i would say it's a downgrade, compared to last year. but that's the thing. this year's upgrades aren't
really all that exciting. considering that the iphone
11 is a full $300 cheaper than the pro, what you're losing really isn't all that significant. yes, you get the two cameras
instead of three cameras. which, i don't even consider
to be a huge downgrade, considering it looks so much less ugly. you get a worse display,
which is totally fair. and that's about it. like, literally, that's about it. so with the iphone 11, you're
getting the extra colors, but most importantly,
you're getting a phone which is actually reasonably priced. sure, $700 is certainly not cheap, but that is very much what
we used to pay the old school flagships two, three years ago before everything hit $1000. and the fact that you're
getting such a solid phone, with some real improvements
over that xr at the $700 price tag, that is so impressive. i can't believe i'm saying this, but apple lowered the price of an iphone. and i'm really happy about that. the new iphone 11 models will be shipping on september 20th, a little
over a week from today. as well as some of the other devices, including that brand new apple watch, will also be hitting on the 20th. i'm very curious to know
what do you guys think about the iphone 11 vs.
the iphone pro and the max? i'm super curious, 'cause
as far as i'm concerned, that iphone 11 is where it's at.