hello calculator fanciers a bit of an unusual one today people have been sending in calculators for me to unbox. which is very sweet of them i think some people have calculators they think should be unboxed by a professional and it's very considerate of them to send them in so i'm going to go for the record of most calculators unboxed in a video sight unseen so let's get into it first up one we've been sent in here at the south surrey and associated regions calculator appreciation society for professionals and amateurs and no indication where or who has sent this in so let's, i mean this is more of a calculator i'm bagging so far, but i'm going to allow it well padded so it doesn't get damaged it's come with a note please funny clothes free calculators which i hope you will unblock over the time for that and frankly three is cheating [of] somebody going [to] unbox one of these we're either going to do the scientific calculator with cover we're going [to] do the home and office scientific calculator, or we will do the wilko scientific calculator make sure you get your sums right vote now yep, it's the wilko so let's get into that one let's pop this thing open using scissors for when you're doing speed unboxing i mean, you know i like my specialist tools but sometimes you just need a multi-tool for everything and we are in ok in no time for instructions in a speed unboxing is it a cover? yeah, okay. it is it all it's got a little stand. that's nice and let's fire it up. so we'll do a simple test to open all the way around it's a root 2 equals x root 2 equals 2 it works [ok] you can see how someone saw the calculator and thought this this would be a good one to unboxed at this what a drab little kit, there's very little going on here in this particular calculator and so i don't think it wants any further tests i'm impressed that someone had the enthusiasm to send it in but i mean it's [just] it's not it's it's it's no gak co is what i'm trying to say [here]. [so] we'll pop that in the not particularly exciting pile and move on to whatever this one is okay, and we have all this is exciting it comes in a smaller unmarked box wow what could it be [i] mean, i'm not fluent in all barcodes so that i mean if you are fluent in but then barcodes spoiler alert, that's already given away what's going to happen, but i don't know so it's okay right [oh] my goodness already, okay. it's not a rectangle. so i'm already more exposed than what [that] it's a keyboard, okay? well, let's test it first before we get too excited, how does it even turn? how's it turn on? is it solar-powered needs more luck nothing light, okay? where i can and it's on [alright] so if we give it enough charge, [i] feel like we should do like the harmonic series. what are we going to do five? times six okay, it works okay, so it's a straightforward stuff with clear on okay on doubles is clear that's not very useful [off] is off on his con is on and doesn't play any sounds so if it played music as i was typing i'd be impressed but sadly it doesn't they were keyboard calculator up next a oh hopefully labeled this is the box that through useful think i've done enough unboxings to recognize a box when i see one so let's get although use electrical tape which is [a] nice touch obviously professional circumstances, i wouldn't just be hacking at it with scissors and ripping it open but given we're just doing you know a fun little unboxing of one of the amateurs have sent in with a letter number file, i'm having to present you the staff device a device that looks and behaves like a normal digital clock if you hold down the middle button while turning it on so it becomes a calculator oh my goodness. oh wow this looks this looks dangerous it comes in bits. how on earth did this not get flagged up by the post this would not look good on an x-ray? so okay, and that's all that we've got all the pieces seems to be the main body of it. this is a dangerously homemade-looking power supply. [i] don't wow, i mean it must be legitimate. they've written it on in tip x and the european socket very little something in the name of my organization which starts self sorry and associated regions which would indicate i'm doing this in england and i'm unable to plug that in because we have queens voltage over here until [i] can't plug that into it is this european socket warranted work i believe we had a vote on this recently so i'm going to file this away for further investigation up next okay this one's comes via amazon. let's cancel there okay, that was a very straightforward. this is almost a trivial unboxing. it's just open. oh, okay. no, there's more [legal] still not fully worthy of an unboxing yet and we have well texas instruments [okay], someone has sent us in a texas instruments because on people get very upset that in america all their calculators come from texas, and we don't tend to [have] [many] over here in south sorry, so an associate regents so someone is finally cracked and sent me in a ti the ti 30x [-] ass. that's an unnecessary level of versions. that's been through without a correct name so let's turn it on and all it already comes with a calculation [preloaded] so it's already got two asterisks ^ asterisk times tan of something [that's] to help people if you're using it, and you're not familiar with doing calculations as an example one or maybe in the factory that's just that that's a texan testing it or actually if you rotate it. it's like a little smiley face. i appreciate all the feedback everyone gives however misguided it may be and i know everyone [wants] us to do more, texas instruments so we will do we've heard you you voted [with] your calculators. we will do a texas calculator special, so i will get a whole bunch. we'll have a look at some don't worry. we will get around to texas instruments thank you for sending it in okay, and this one. i mean unboxing it is trivial. we can already see it. this was actually it wasn't posted which is why it's already open this one someone came and gave it to me at the manchester science festival so they wake up as it here is a calculator pen so let's get in there and have a closer look at it, and i there are no surprises what we saw on the outside it's exactly what we all look at the instructions there has to be a new record for the compact and efficient placement of instructions and looking at no unnecessary information i don't even use both sides there like that's all we need why print double-sided when you can just fold it in half afterwards and cram it in there and they vary uk patent on they figured you know someone else is going to try and beat them to market, so the crossover pen calculator market [it] says auto power off and it's very efficient the moment. i turn it on it's off again so is there no battery in that i mean if only there was some other way [to] use this without all there's not there's a pen right so obviously i can to the pen pen doesn't work the pen is also also auto off what is this can we commit we should better get in there dude wow, so it's got ink in there. maybe it's just been okay, so it was a [fair] [nick] [ever] gave this to me what i'm saying to question how much they really liked me so i mean look at that. this is clear this isn't aged this is an aged product [i] don't know how this went so long and people are able to resist opening it to get out the calculator pen this is clearly a product of a legal loophole somewhere, it's like you're not let a calculator but you can bring in a pen or you have to do all your mathematical working out by pen and they've gone not a problem. [i] will do all [my] working out bike pen right, so there you [i] [mean] full points for creativity, but you have to take it into the shop and get it looked at properly because this is a vintage model and it's [gonna] need a proper refurbishment and a going-over before it's in a state for me to unbox and review it here we go once at the world record. so next one up another anonymous little sack, i get into this oh my goodness second mystery box and so again if you know your barcodes them up your spoiler. [they're] all my goodness. it's transparent okay okay, that's kind of cool. okay. it's a guard. it's a guide everyone. it's okay i can remove that safely, [and] there's no way. that's gonna work. there's no way i don't know what i'm pressing clear what oh my goodness often my desk is just dense with working out and notes about calculators and all sorts of math, and you go well what am i going to put my character? i want to cover up some of [my] mouth now you can put it down and you're not you're barely losing any of the mass you had available before so i can get up quite handy, and i guess as a professional unboxer if i've got another calculator. i want to unbox and i want to do some calculations at the same time so i'm not under lee i can calculate i can unbox two at once like i'm barely obscuring the one behind it okay this one has already been opened because it wasn't labeled as the calculator on the outside and so i opened it thinking it was normal post and oh my goodness, and this is it it was the casio data [count] 100 and oh this is intriguing you can schedule a telephone call to tell someone a secret i mean, it look like a particularly nice narrow thing but should this situation ever occur you can do some calculations at the same time this because this is a new [generation] of calculators so the box is already open that it is still here. i mean, it's missing missing a little tab there which is a bit, it's a bit sad, but it's got the what on earth? operation manual haven't got time for that in the speed unboxing it's got is that a note is that [all] okay? it's the receipt from the original purchase okay, that's quite nice, [so] someone has bought this cow you later in december 8 so the 14th of december a year that ends in [8th]. i mean. i'm gonna guess it's oh, there's a tap. [oh], thank goodness okay, so there's that missing turns from the end there, so this has been purchased i assume in 1988 i could be wrong. this is why you should always use the full with the complete [timecode] various appoint, let's not use that someone's paid 17 pounds 75 p back in the day from this from john and that's actually i mean i know a lot of people try hard when they want to be a serious calculator collector and they send them in i try and be encouraging and i always say keep all your documentation if you can't show the providence of the calculator what is the point of having it in your collection and someone here is actually kept the [original] sales receipt from a branch of the john lewis partnership so well done someone out there you're you're halfway to being a serious calculator appreciator i mean i'm a little confused partly because this is a very new device and partly because i appeared of woken up in the year 2041 which i mean, i had i mean time flies when you're unboxing calculators, but that is ridiculous this is here because [in] some calculators if you press up up down down left right a bit you know you can unlock special modes to the square root test times 2 square root equals eat nothing what times? oh i didn't i it's probably before to realistic buttons wow equals [rf] is rounded down that's not good, [so] i'm going to put that in my curiosity pile think you've ever sent that in and i will have a closer look at one birth is going on there and maybe it maybe i can tease out its secrets who knows and i'll keep the original tab can go in there with [a] receipt that i mean that is a pretty complete collection. i'm impressed and finally in our attempt the eighth's calculator because you always do powers of two and you sixteen i mean no no human could unlock sixteen taxes. oh, haha so some comedian out there. i mean, i don't really go into the jokes and comedy that someone thinks they're hysterical and they sent me in an abacus [oh], i almost think i shouldn't even give it the the decent even unboxing, but i am professional and i refuse to [let] down my standards okay, [so] this sticks clear entry function isn't working properly some of the previous entry is still in there yeah, that's a hard reset and what is this someone's ah [there's] a manufacturing default and the display is there's like a dead pixel on the display of this abacus flip note two dead pixels okay, so i guess i can turn into a calculation with this let's let enter in just this maybe that's seven and i'm going to divide to [1/7] and then multiply by seven again so there you are an abacus well done from up there thinks they're hilarious and i guess i mean is it's quite a funny joke sending in an abacus i can appreciate that that someone out there [is] a comedian but a calculator unboxing video is no time for joking around so it's just it's not appropriate [but] thank you to everyone who did send in proper serious calculators? it's been fun doing a speed unboxing. we'll be back with [some] proper serious unboxing soon this should be equal to the main tricky what age group is behind that well clearly from the front children and amusement know hang on yeah? it's a suitable only for nobel prize with [anything] [that] we want they're putting them all back in [altered]. so here it is there so we're going to be into the wall one hundreds