- i can't see! - wait, what?
- dude, what? i did not think this would work. dude, i don't even have
to lie to these people. you might be wondering why did i purchase every fan in my city to try to push a car? and while there's a very
good reason for this. i accidentally told chris, i loved him. - all right, man. see you later. - yeah, it was a lot of fun. love you, dude.
- wait? - and the only logical thing i could do was build a time machine and
try to undo that mistake. didn't mean to tell chris i love him. please undo it. man, thought that would work. more fans. jang, did it go back in time? - nope. - more! all right, chris, did i buy any chance? tell you i love you this morning. - yeah, still bringing that up? - hey chris! - yeah, man. what's up? - come here. did i tell you
i loved you this morning? - yeah, you 100% did. you're not gonna change it, man. you just can't. - i'm going to. get away from me. i'm gonna undo this. know what? let's bring out
the hundred leaf blowers. all right, did i tell you
i loved you this morning? - what are you talking about? - okay, good. you wanna have sex? - wait, did you just ask
me if i wanted have sex? - turn all the fans on again. now, before we push a car using only fans. wait what? - dude, what! - i wanted to use my time
machine to make pancakes. and then i got in the mood for a salad. after that, we tried to use
hundreds of fans to make cereal. - i can't see! - we then were assaulted by flour. of course, after the flower,
the fire nation attacked. and they sent a lot of baked beans. our friend then confused us with the wall and tried to paint us. this right here is taco seasoning and it was disgusting. - right hand green! left leg yellow! - i was then tortured
by balloons of water. all right, i probably should
have mentioned this before but we got brand new merch, "meat lovers," "is this a sandwich?" 'cause like is a hot dog a sandwich. and "drug of choice." pop 'em up. they're right here as you see. and then there's two other
ones we're not wearing. just so you know, if you buy the merch, i promise it won't look like this. it'll look all nice and clean. and they're really funny. so head to shopmrbeast.com. shopmrbeast.com. all right, we have all the
fans running full throttle. we got a lot of these fans
running full throttle. we got all the leaf blowers on. all right, jake, back up. before we push the car using only fans, i wanna show you guys a
montage of all the videos i've scrapped over the
course of the last month. sometimes i film a video and it's just not enough
content for me to upload, but they were really cool ideas and i'm gonna show you them. and the first one is when me and chris tried to swim
in a pool of tide pods. all right guys, we have 2000 tide pods. we have a pool right here
and we're gonna fill it up. the tide pods didn't really do anything. and as you can see, it just
turned out really stupid. hence, why i scrapped this video? the next video i scrapped
is how many bullets does it take to stop a bullet, which i thought was really
cool, but..what's up guys? do you mind? i'm trying to do an intro. - sorry. - what's up guys, today we're- shut the up! - i'm doing something! - what's up, guys today's we're gonna- , just shoot things. - three, two, one. it only took one bullet to stop it and the rest fell down. - all right, we got our clickbait. now, let's have some fun. oh, that's pretty good actually. - seriously, though stop eating it. hey, you wanna be fat? - hey tubby, keep on eating the cake. - yeah, get outta here. hey, what do you call those? - i call them gucci. - hey, you know, it goes
good with cake, soda. this soda is gonna pop, ha, ha, ha. three, two, one. - i wombo, you wombo. - he, she, me, wombo. - oh man, chris, do you moisturize? - yeah.
- you do? - that's so funny. - what are you doing with the bottle? - i really hate this meme. stop! saying it! - i take it you don't like that meme? all right, every comment
till the day i die better be, does chris moisturize? - yeah, if you wanna end up
like the moisturize bottle. - hey, don't threaten my
fans. they're little kids. - oh yeah, sorry children. guns are bad. they kill people and stuff. - oh yeah, we're trained
professionals, by the way. our previous summoning ritual didn't work. we tried screaming at
god with 100 megaphones and he didn't give us shrek. [music] somebody once told me the
world was gonna hold me [music] [music] i ain't the sharpest tool in the shed [music] so now we have a new ritual to summon our lord and savior, shrek. i hope this one works. the next video we scrapped is when we tried to catapult things. we're finally gonna use
my engineering degree from harvard to build a catapult. - dude, you already built one. it's right there. - oh yeah. i got the
degree a long time ago. that was a science project. - test number one. - coconuts. - you're gonna have to have. - all right, test number two, apples. - so you may think we're
bananas for building a catapult, but let us tell you that
this is a great idea. and if you're a hater, i'm
going to eggplant your mom. - dude, did you just make your penis joke? - for those of you wondering, i'm how too basic. all right guys, this is
attempt something i forgot. hopefully it works. three, two, one! - oh my gosh. whoa! oh! that was a sack of freaking stuff. - you almost died. that would've been good clickbait. - oh, dude, that was sick. - amazing.
- i think that's the farthest one yet. - i'd say we got a solid 20 feet on that bad boy. pretty good. definitely worth spending
an entire day making. i'm boga gloria and this is beast news. our first story is about meme review, particularly the bonus meme, which many people weren't happy with. one youtuber took to
the streets to protest. - i'm mrbeast and you
think you can get away with posting such a low quality bonus meme. yesn't you can't. it's time you pay the price. - everyone knows the best
way to catch a dinosaur is to put a toilet in
the middle of a field. and then when they go to use it, you just ambush 'em so, right, chris? - make sure they don't
have any toilet paper so they have to come with you. - yeah, we got this, boys. - a few moment later. - chris, there's a dinosaur. wait for it to sit down and then we approach it. - once he sits, he's trapped. - oh nope, oh, oh, oh. did he stop? okay, he didn't see us. go, go, go, go, go, go. - gimme your hands dinosaur. now you can wipe yourself. oh, wait. - chris, you gotta wipe him for him. - oh god! ah! ah! jeez louise,
that's a stinky dinosaur. - the last video we scrapped is when we tried to
build the world's largest baking soda volcano. now just keep in mind, these aren't all the videos we scrapped. i'm gonna do another video
like this in the future. and after i show you this volcano, i'll show you how many fans
it takes to push a car. chris, chris, do you see those dinosaurs? - oh god, here they come. - they're attacking.
- are we ready? - all right, the volcano
might not be ready, but whatever, you just gotta do it. - yeah, there we go. - light the- holy . take that dinosaur. take that! that's right! ha, ha, ha, you're dead. - oh, nice.
- the viking's going in hot. what's the viking doing? - he's in nordic god. this is how they get to valhalla. - this is how they get immortality. immortality's not worth dying over. - as you can see, this car's in reverse. yeah, switch it to neutral. all right, so it is in neutral. foot's on the brake, not on the gas. let go. - wait, what?
- dude, what? - dude! - the fans are pushing it. dude, the fans pushed it. - i didn't think that would work. all right, you ready? - all right. - look at that, dude!
- what? - we actually did a video and it worked. - i didn't think that would work. - so we're in neutral. now if we pull the car back
to where the fans have power. all right, this is where the
fans are the most powerful. we're gonna let it go. that counts as moving in my book. - i did not think this would work. dude, i don't even have
to lie to these people. - no. - like literally, i thought i was going to lie to all you guys, but i didn't even have to lie. [music] mister beast [music] [music] oh [music] [music] mister beast [music] [music] oh [music] [music] mister beach [music] [music] oh [music] [music] mister beach [music] [music] oh [music]