in june of 2022, the level in lake mead, the 
largest water reservoir in the united states   formed by the hoover dam, reached yet another 
all-time low of 175 feet or 53 meters below full,   a level that hasn't been seen since the lake was 
first filled in the 1930s. rusted debris, sunken   boats, and even human remains have surfaced from 
beneath the receding water level. and lake mead   doesn't stand alone. in fact, it's just a drop in 
the bucket. many of the largest water reservoirs   in the western united states are at critically low 
storage with the summer of 2022 only just getting   started. lake powell upstream of lake mead on the 
colorado river is at its lowest level on record.   lake oroville (of the enormous spillway failure 
fame) and lake shasta, two of california's   largest reservoirs, are at critical levels. 
the combined reservoirs in utah are below 50%   full. even many of the westernmost reservoirs 
here in texas are very low going into summer. people use water at more or less a constant 
rate and yet, mother nature supplies it in   unpredictable sloshes of rain or snow that 
can change with the seasons and often have   considerable dry periods between them. if the 
sloshes get too far apart, we call it a drought.   and at least one study has estimated that the past 
two decades have been the driest period in more   than a thousand years for the southwestern united 
states, leading to a so-called "mega-drought."   dams and reservoirs are one solution to this 
tremendous variability in natural water supply.   but what happens when they stop filling up or (in 
the case of one lake in oklahoma), what happens   when they never fill up in the first place? 
i'm grady, and this is practical engineering.   on today's episode we're talking about water 
availability and water supply storage reservoirs. this video is sponsored by brilliant,   the best way to learn math and science 
through problem solving. more on them later. the absolute necessity of water demands that city 
planners always assume the worst case scenario.   if you have a dry year (or even a dry day), 
you can't just hunker down until the rainy   weather comes back. so the biggest question when 
developing a new supply of water is the firm   yield. that's the maximum amount 
of water the source will supply   during the worst possible drought. 
here's an example to make this clearer: imagine you're the director of public works for 
a new town. to keep your residents hydrated and   clean, you build a pumping station on a nearby 
river to collect that water and send it to a   treatment plant where it can be purified and 
distributed. this river doesn't flow at a   constant rate. there's lots of flow during the 
spring as mountain snowpack melts and runs off,   but the flow declines over the course 
of the summer once that snow has melted   and rain showers are more spread out. in 
really dry years, when the snowpack is thin,   the flow in the river nearly dries 
up completely. in other words,   the river has no firm yield. it's not a dependable 
supply of water in any volume. of course, there is   water to be used most of the time, but most of 
the time isn't enough for this basic human need.   so what do you do? one option is to store some 
of that excess water so that it can keep the   pumps running and the taps flowing during the 
dry times. but, the amount of storage matters. a clearwell at a water treatment plant or an 
elevated water tower usually holds roughly   one day's worth of supply. those types of 
tanks are meant to smooth out variability   in demands over the course of a day (and i have 
a video on that topic), but they can't do much   for the reliability of a water source. if the 
river dries up for more than one day at a time,   a water tower won't do much good. for that, you 
need to increase your storage capacity by an   order of magnitude (or two). that's why we build 
dams to create reservoirs that, in some cases,   hold trillions of gallons or tens of trillions of 
liters at a time, incredible (almost unimaginable)   volumes. you could never build a tank to hold 
so much liquid, but creating an impoundment   across a river valley allows the water to 
fill the landscape like a bathtub. dams take   advantage of mother nature's topography to form 
simple yet monumental water storage facilities. let's put a small reservoir on your city's river 
and see how that changes the reliability of your   supply. if the reservoir is small, it stays 
full for most of the year. any water that   isn't stored simply flows downstream 
as if the reservoir wasn't even there.   but, during the summer, as flows 
in the river start to decrease,   the reservoir can supplement the supply by making 
releases. it's still possible that in those dry   years, you won't have a lot of water stored for 
the summer, but you'll still have more than zero,   meaning your supply has a firm yield, a safe 
amount of water you can promise to deliver even   under the worst conditions, roughly equal to the 
average flow rate over the course of a dry year. now let's imagine you build a bigger dam to 
increase the size of your reservoir so it can   hold more than just a season's worth of supply. 
instead of simply making up a deficit during the   driest few months, now you can make up the deficit 
of one or more dry years. the firm yield of your   water source goes up even further, approaching the 
long-term average of river flows, and completely   eliminating the idea of a drought by converting 
all those inconsistent sloshes of rain and snow   into a perfectly constant supply. beyond this, any 
increase in reservoir capacity doesn't contribute   to yield. after all, a reservoir doesn't create 
water, it just stores what's already there. of course, dams do more than merely store water 
for cities that need a firm supply for their   citizens. they also store water for agriculture 
and hydropower that have more flexibility in their   demand. reservoirs serve as a destination for 
recreation, driving massive tourism economies.   some reservoirs are built simply to provide 
cooling water for power plants. and, many dams   are constructed larger than needed for just water 
conservation so they can also absorb a large flood   event (even when the reservoir is full). every 
reservoir has operating guidelines that clarify   when and where water can be withdrawn or 
released and under what conditions and no   two are the same. but, i'm explaining 
all this to clarify one salient point:   an empty reservoir isn't necessarily a bad thing. dams are expensive to build. they tie up huge 
amounts of public resources. they are risky   structures that must be vigilantly monitored, 
maintained, and rehabilitated. and in many cases,   they have significant impacts on the natural 
environment. put simply, we don't build dams   bigger than what's needed. empty reservoirs 
might create a negative public perception.   dried up lake beds are ugly, and the "bathtub 
ring" around lake mead is a stark reminder of   water scarcity in the american southwest. but, 
not using the entire storage volume available can   be considered a lack of good stewardship of the 
dam, and that means reservoirs should be empty   sometimes. why build it so big if you're not going 
to use the stored water during periods of drought?   storage is the whole point of the thing... 
except there's one more thing to discuss: engineers and planners don't actually know what 
the worst case scenario drought will be over the   lifetime of a reservoir. in an ideal world, we 
could look at thousands of years of historical   streamflow records to get a sense of how long 
droughts can last for a particular waterbody.   and in fact, some rivers do have stream gages that 
have been diligently collecting data for more than   a century, but most don't. so, when assessing 
the yield of a new water supply reservoir,   planners have to make a lot of assumptions 
and use indirect sources of information.   but even if we could look at a long-term 
historical record as the basis of design,   there's another problem. there's no rule that 
says the future climate on earth will look   anything like the past one, and indeed we 
have reason to believe that the long-term   average streamflows in many areas of the world 
- along with many other direct measures of   climate - are changing. in that case, it makes 
sense to worry that reservoirs are going dry.   like i said, reservoirs don't create water, so 
if the total amount delivered to the watershed   through precipitation is decreasing over 
time, so will a reservoirs firm yield that brings me to the question of the whole video: 
what happens when a reservoir runs out of water?   it's a pretty complicated question, not only 
because water suppliers and distributors   are relatively independent of each other and 
decentralized (capable of making very different   decisions in the face of scarcity), but also 
because the effects happen over a long period   of time. most utilities maintain long-term 
plans that look far into the future for both   supply and demand, allowing them to develop 
new supplies or implement conservation measures   well before the situation becomes an emergency 
for their customers. barring major failures in   government or public administration, you're 
unlikely to turn on your tap someday and   not have flowing water. in reality, water 
availability is mostly an economic issue.   we don't so much run out as we just use more 
expensive ways to get it. utilities spend   more money on infrastructure like pipelines that 
bring in water from places with greater abundance,   wells that can take advantage of groundwater 
resources, or even desalination plants that can   convert brackish sources or even seawater 
into a freshwater source. alternatively,   utilities might invest in advertising and various 
conservation efforts to convince their customers   to use less. either way, those costs get 
passed down to the ratepayers and beyond. for some, like those in cities, the higher water 
prices might be worth the cost to live in a   climate that would otherwise be inhospitable. for 
others, especially farmers, the increased cost of   water might offset their margins, forcing them 
to let fields fallow temporarily or for good.   so, while drying reservoirs might not 
constitute an emergency for most individuals,   the impacts trickle down to 
everyone through increased rates,   increased costs of food, and a whole host of 
other implications. that's why many consider   what's happening in the american southwest to 
be a quote-unquote "slow moving trainwreck." in 2019, all the states that use water from 
the colorado river signed a drought contingency   plan that involves curtailing use, starting 
in arizona and nevada. those curtailments   will force farmers to tap into groundwater 
supplies which are both expensive and limited.   eventually, irrigated farming in arizona 
and nevada may become a thing of the past.   there's no question that the climate 
is changing in the american southwest,   as years continue to be hotter and drier than 
any time in recorded history. it can be hard to   connect cause and effect for such widespread and 
dramatic shifts in long-term weather patterns,   but i have one example of an empty reservoir 
where there's no question about why it's dry. in 1978, the us army corps of engineers 
completed optima lake dam across the beaver   river in oklahoma. the dam is an earth embankment 
120 feet (or 37 meters) high and over 3 miles or   5 kilometers long. the beaver river in oklahoma 
had historically averaged around 30 cubic feet   or nearly a cubic meter per second of flow 
and the river even had some major floods,   sending huge volumes of water downstream. 
however, during construction of the dam,   it became clear that things were rapidly changing. 
it turns out that most of the flows in the beaver   river were from springs, areas where groundwater 
seeps up to the surface. over the 1960s and 70s,   pumping of groundwater for cities and agriculture 
reduced the level of the aquifer in this area,   slashing streamflow in the beaver river as it did. 
the result was that when construction was finished   on this massive earthen dam, the reservoir 
never filled up. now optima lake dam sits   mostly high and dry in the oklahoma panhandle, 
never having reached more than 5 percent full,   as a monument to bad assumptions about 
the climate and a lesson to engineers,   water planners, and everyone about the 
challenges we face in a drier future. drought seems really simple when you're just 
looking at the level in a reservoir, but i hope   this video helped you appreciate the technical 
complexity in developing and managing water   supply for a large area that involves hydrology, 
geology, meteorology, climatology, and of course   a lot of civil engineering. in fact, i've found 
through everything i do that the all the best and   most important projects combine the expertise and 
knowledge of lots of different fields of study.   and the way you get exposed to those different 
fields isn't by reading or watching videos.   it's by doing the thing, coding the program, by 
building the project. that's why i'm so thankful   to have brilliant as the sponsor of today's video. 
brilliant is a learning platform for science,   technology, engineering and math, that is super 
interactive. there are courses on logic, computer   science, math, and actually my favorite is this 
one called the physics of the everyday that just   pulls back the scientific curtain on aspects of 
the world that you only learned about in grade   school (for example, one of my favorite obsessions 
- the weather). if that sounds interesting to you,   go try brilliant yourself completely free at 
brilliant.org/practicalengineering. you don't   pay anything to sign up, and the first 200 
people that use the link will get 20% off an   annual premium subscription. thank you for 
watching, and let me know what you think.