on july 22th 2023, a paper was posted 
claiming the creation of a room temperature,   ambient pressure superconductor. lk-99. the world is now trying to synthesize 
the thing and replicate the paper's   findings. the lk-99 wikipedia 
page is keeping a running tally. the quest for a room temperature 
superconductor has gone for over a   century. it has seen some amazing highs and lows. in this video let us dive into 
the dream and track the 100-year   history of technological progression 
towards this mythical substance. ## superconductivity resistance is a material's opposition to 
an electric current flowing through it. a conductor has low resistance 
and so lets electrons easily   move through them. insulators do not. in previous videos, i have mentioned that all   real world materials have some amount of 
resistance. of course, i was not thinking   about superconductors - perhaps because i 
didn't consider them practical materials. we have known about superconductivity 
for over a century now. in 1911,   the dutch physicist and nobel prize 
winner heike kamerlingh-onnes and his   students started performing experiments at 
super low temperatures using liquid helium. at the time, people speculated 
on what might happen to the   electrical resistance of metals 
as they approached absolute zero. sir james dewar - inventor of 
the vacuum flask - theorized   that electrical resistance would 
infinitesimally approach zero. lord kelvin on the other hand thought that it 
would hit some minimum before quickly rising   towards infinity. his reasoning being that the 
electrons would stop moving as it gets colder. so kamerlingh-onnes did an experiment 
with mercury. why mercury? because   it was the only metal they had 
available in sufficient purity. and unexpectedly, the experiment showed 
mercury's resistance falling to zero   just below 4.2 kelvin. kamerlingh-onnes 
named this state "superconductivity". the temperature at which the material achieves 
this state is called the "transition temperature". ## disappointment the first superconductors triggered 
a great deal of excitement. it was the electrical engineer's wet dream 
- a future free of electrical resistance. in   1913 kamerlingh-onnes traveled to chicago 
and spoke of building a helium cooling   plant in pursuit of smaller, more efficient 
motors or generators using superconductivity. optimistic, kamerlingh-onnes continued his 
work. he discovered that lead's transition   temperature was 7.2 kelvin - 
slightly higher than mercury. in 1914, he then made a coil of lead wire, froze 
it to 7.2 kelvin and passed an electrical current   through it. but to his disappointment, 
the coil lost all of its superconducting   powers when the magnetic field got to be 
about as strong as a horseshoe magnet. as it turns out, superconductivity requires not 
only a low enough temperature but also a low   enough magnetic field and a low enough amount of 
current passing through it - current density. the   material can only maintain their superconductivity 
if all three sit within the parameters. today, pure metal or simple alloy 
superconductors are known for this   fundamental weakness. these are not good 
for practical industrial use. after all,   electrical systems encounter 
magnetic fields all the time. kamerlingh-onnes must have been 
crushed. he was one of the first   scientists to have fallen victim to the sirens 
of superconductivity. he would not be the last. ## a curiosity research on superconductor 
materials then slowed for a decade. the need for liquid helium cooling stood as 
a formidable financial barrier to continued   commercialization. and there was no 
big market need pushing for it either.   many people worked on the concept 
simply because it fascinated them. through them, pioneering science was 
done in the 1930s. we discovered three   more superconductors - tantalum at 
4.4k, thorium at 1.4k, and niobium.   which has the highest transition 
temperature yet known at 9.2 kelvin. in 1933 we discovered the meissner effect. 
this is where a superconductor expels all   magnetic fields as it transitions 
into a superconducting state. in other words, the magnetic field 
will go around the superconductor   material rather than permeate through 
it. this explains why all the videos   you see of these things are 
of them floating on magnets. and then a second major discovery that 
went under the radar. in the late 1920s,   the soviet ukrainian scientist lev 
shubnikov worked at a cryogenic lab   in the netherlands. in 1930, he returned to 
the soviet union and continued his research. there, his experiments discovered what are now   called type ii superconductors. these 
are quite different from the pure metal   superconductors - today called "type i" 
- that so disappointed kamerlingh-onnes. type i superconductors fall back to normal 
behavior when they breach their magnetic limit. but type ii superconductors can display a mix 
of ordinary and superconducting properties   at certain magnetic limits. so type iis can 
potentially be made to be far more tolerant of   higher magnetic fields than type is. these are 
almost always complicated alloys or compounds. sadly shubnikov never got to see the benefits 
of his work. at the height of the great purge   in 1937, the nkvd targeted him for his 
foreign connections. they arrested him,   accused him of espionage and shot him. 
it would be many years before the rest   of the superconductor community recognized and 
capitalized on the significance of his work. ## post-war world war ii had shown the entire 
world the economic and military   value of turning sciences into technologies. shortly before the war, mit professor 
samuel collins invented the collins helium   liquefier system. widely introduced after the war,   the collins made liquid helium more 
available for superconductor research. yet the search for higher temperature 
superconductors - perhaps even a room   temperature one - remained quite 
difficult. we did not have good   theory to tell us where to look. so most 
people started with metals with already   low amounts of resistivity - 
copper, gold, silver so on. in the early 1950s, a pair of scientists 
- b.t. matthias and john hulm - took a   different approach. they embarked on a 
systematic search via experimentation. the two pioneered the method of finding 
superconductors via the meissner effect - the   superconductor's tendency to expel magnetic 
fields. they applied an external magnetic   field to a sample as it was being cooled and 
measured whether it expelled that magnetic field. matthias and hulm systematically 
moved through the periodic table,   eventually testing over 5,000 compounds. this was how they discovered the 
a3b superconductors - 3 niobium   atoms and 1 atom of either silicon, tin, or 
aluminum. yes, it is a terrible name. anyway   these would hold the record for the highest 
transition temperature - 23 k for 28 years. matthias eventually formulated the "matthias 
rules" for finding a superconductor - which   like the pirate code - are more what 
you'd call guidelines than actual rules. rule number six was "stay away from theorists!" ## bcs as you might expect, matthias 
looked down on superconducting   theory - calling them just "descriptions". but the physics world wanted a theory to 
help guide their way forward. and in 1957,   three scientists proposed a 
theory that did just that. john robert schrieffer, leon cooper one of the 
namesakes of sheldon cooper, and john bardeen. recognize the name of that last guy? 
bardeen won his first nobel prize in   physics as one of the three inventors of the 
transistor. this theory won him his second. the theory was named bcs - 
named after its three inventors.   bcs also stands for bowl championship 
series. it was a system that helped   select the match-ups in top tier 
american football college divisions. cal hasn't won a football championship 
since before world war ii so i don't   know why i cared to mention this. let's move on. anyway, bcs theory suggests that when a 
material enters a superconducting state,   their electrons pair up. this is weird 
because normally they repel each other. but in that superconducting state, we 
have the influence of a new force called   phonons. phonons are measurable, energized 
vibrations in the material's crystal lattice. thanks to the attractive 
forces from these phonons,   the electron pairs create a brand 
new form called "cooper pairs". cooper pairs are exempt from 
the pauli exclusion principle,   which explains why two solid objects can't be 
in same place at the same time. and also why   all matter does not simply collapse into 
a single point despite everything being   mostly empty space. i think i asked 
my mom that once when i was a kid. thusly, cooper pairs allow these 
electrons to act differently than   they usually do - traveling through the crystal 
lattice without resistance. this part of the   theory has generally held over the years - 
cooper pairs are key to superconductivity. the energy bonds holding these cooper pairs   are quite weak. so they can be easily 
shaken apart by thermal energy. thus,   bcs theory does a good job of explaining 
superconductivity at low temperatures. superconducting materials whose behavior is   explainable by bcs theory are known 
as "conventional superconductors". by 1960, we knew about 35 elements and 
a thousand different alloys to have   shown superconductivity under certain conditions. ## superconducting wire in 1961, scientists discovered a 
series of niobium-based alloys that   retained their superconductivity in the 
presence of a stronger magnetic field. these were called high-field superconductors. 
and they theoretically allowed us to make   large superconducting wires that performed 
far better than traditional copper ones.   such wires can produce very powerful 
magnetic fields using very little power. high-field superconductors achieved the original 
dream of kamerlingh-onnes many decades ago. but   even so, it took the industry until early 1970 to 
reliably and viably produce superconducting wire. such superconducting wires eventually became the   widely accepted method for producing 
mris. mris with superconducting wire   remain the single biggest and most important 
commercial use for superconductor materials. ## the breakthrough in 1986, two researchers at an ibm lab in zurich,   switzerland were collaborating 
on a study on superconductors. alex muller was a senior research fellow at ibm 
who received the job basically as a stopover   before retirement. he had gotten interested in 
the field after spending 20 months in new york. there, he observed ibm's massive 
josephson computer technology   project. that was a $300 million effort 
to build an ultra-fast computer based   on superconducting digital logic 
switches. it ultimately failed. i will talk about josephson and his 
learnings in a future video about   superconducting circuits and their computers. upon returning to zurich in 1983, muller 
recruited a colleague georg bednorz to   look for superconductors in oxides. after a 
couple frustrating years searching around, they came across an article from a team 
of french scientists describing metal-like   electrical conductivity at a rather high 
temperature. like 900 degrees celsius high. that was interesting. ceramics are traditionally 
known to be electrical insulators. after further   experiments, the duo produced a ceramic compound 
of barium, lanthanum, copper, and oxygen that   achieved superconductivity at 35 kelvin (-238 
degrees celsius) - a legit breakthrough. as is so often in the land of superconductors, 
this discovery came as a total surprise. bednorz   and muller first kept their results away from 
even their colleagues and their employer. they decided to first publish their results 
at a small but reputable german physics   journal (zeitschrift fur physik) apparently 
because they personally knew its editor. in april 1986 they submitted the paper, which 
was deliberately given a very disarming title:   "possible high tc superconductivity 
in the ba-la-cu-o system".   they chose this title because the two were 
not sure about their result. for instance,   the meissner effect had not 
yet been measured in it. after some time, the paper was finally 
published in september 1986. but rumors   had been circulating since july, and they shook 
the scientific community like an earthquake.   not only because ceramics like as i said 
before were not seen to be good conductors. but also bednorz and muller were seen as outsiders 
to the superconductor community - working in a   backwater of the ibm research machine. one 
prominent member of the community - jaded   by false claims over the years - was tempted to 
simply throw the paper away when he first saw it. these new ceramics also violated the previously 
established rules of superconductors. it did   not follow the matthias rules. and not only 
that, it highlighted a hole in bcs theory. by then, physicists had largely adopted 
bcs as a reasonably rigorous explanation   of superconductivity. and because 
bcs only worked at low temperatures,   superconductivity in general was regarded as 
an exclusively low-temperature phenomenon. this discovery heralded a new class 
of ceramic oxide superconductors with   higher transition temperatures. higher 
than ever before seen - referred to as   "high temperature superconductors" or high-t. research teams around the world raced to 
replicate the results. in late november 1986,   some 2 months after publication, the asahi shinbun 
newspaper reported that a team led by shoji tanaka   of the university of tokyo had successfully 
repeated the experiment, confirming the results. ## cuprates a few weeks after that, paul chu of the 
university of houston replicated the results. chu's results made the 
headlines. more impressively,   he believed that there were other materials 
with even higher transition temperatures. a race for new superconductors soon 
emerged, with the big line being   77 kelvin, the temperature of liquid 
nitrogen. various groups in beijing,   tokyo, and the united states 
traded papers back and forth. then in january 1987, dr. chu 
discovered a superconductor with   a transition temperature above 90 kelvin. 
breaking the so-called nitrogen barrier. chu held off publishing for as long as possible 
as he tried to first patent the material. finally in february 1987, he announced 
his marvelous technical breakthrough. this class of high temperature superconductors 
is sometimes called 1-2-3 superconductors   because they have 1 atom of yttrium, 2 
atoms of barium, and 3 atoms of copper.   there is also some oxygen attached but 
whatever it messes with the cool naming. these things are also more generally 
referred to as ybco superconductors,   cuprate superconductors or 
rare-earth cuprate superconductors. oh hey, more rare earths stuff. wonder 
who's the world leader in those? anyway, all cuprate superconductors share the same 
structure. they are big layered compounds kind of   like cakes. layers of copper-oxygen separated 
from one another by insulating oxide layers. the superconductivity happens within 
those thin copper-oxygen layers. we   aren't exactly sure how it works. 
cooper pairs are probably involved,   but differently from how it is in bcs theory 
- making them unconventional superconductors. cuprates broke the nitrogen barrier, which 
meant that we can use liquid nitrogen to   cool them rather than liquid helium - which is 
what we used before. this has significant cost   benefits. liquid nitrogen costs about 50 cents 
per gallon while liquid helium, $24 per gallon. on march 15th, the american physical 
society held a special symposium   on high temperature superconductors 
specifically to talk about the results. several thousand physicists gathered at the hilton 
at what they now call the woodstock of physics. the highlight was a special evening 
session dedicated to the discovery - held   on wednesday night in the hilton grand 
ballroom. it was filled to the brink.   the session started out at 7 pm and ended 
at around 3 am - a magical 8 hours long. ## a gold rush a "gold rush" was on for new 
materials based on this breakthrough. superconductor related headlines hit the media 
like the new york times. businessweek cried out,   "superconductors! more important than 
the light bulb and the transistor". the fever swept over japan. multiple ministries   rapidly directed r&d spending 
into this new category. by 1988,   miti's single biggest r&d expenditure 
was on high temperature superconductors. the united states too. the white 
house even held a presidential   conference on superconductivity in july 1987. reagan proposed an 11-point plan to build 
new industries around this new technology.   tens of millions of dollars of federal 
r&d were funneled into superconductors. on the corporate front, ibm and bell labs 
faced off with one another. they joined the   fray alongside a bunch of new startups with buzzy 
names like american superconductor corporation,   conductus, illinois superconductor incorporated, 
and superconducting technologies incorporated. ## hype fades the discoveries kept coming throughout 1987. by playing around with the 
original barium, lanthanum,   copper, and oxygen ceramic formula, 
researchers were able to find cuprate   superconductors with increasingly 
higher transition temperatures. but the gaps between science and technology can 
be quite large and take a lot of time to overcome.   as it turns out, transition temperature was 
only just one of the factors that engineers   have to consider when building 
commercially viable systems. for instance, take superconducting wires 
for mri machines. the original promise of   high-temperature superconductors was 
that we can swap out more expensive   liquid helium cooling systems for cheaper 
liquid nitrogen ones. should be easy right? but as kamerlingh-onnes found out long before,   superconducting wires need to also be able 
to carry high current densities and withstand   very high magnetic fields. in other words, 
they need to meet the critical parameters. the cuprate high temperature superconductors do 
indeed have much higher transition temperatures   but their other critical parameters 
are not as dramatically higher. there was also a substantial 
materials engineering problem.   cuprate superconductors are ceramics 
- complicated materials that are very   brittle to work with. this by itself 
limited their usefulness as a material. they also work differently. if you 
recall, the cuprates are layered cakes,   and all the superconducting happens within 
those single flat layers of copper and oxygen. this imposes big challenges on how we might 
achieve this superconductivity. if we want   to produce a wire using this material 
- it needs to be done in a specific way   in order to maintain good alignment 
over potentially hundreds of meters. so it took a substantial amount of time 
to eventually engineer wire using high   temperature superconductors. they do exist and are   used for things like cables for power 
usage, but that took years to develop. and there are certain applications where the 
high-t cuprate superconductors still fall short   of established technologies. niobium titanium - 
established all the way back in 1970 - continues   to dominate superconducting wires for mris. mostly 
due to their superior mechanical properties. the slow speed of commercialization 
dampened enthusiasm. and unfortunately,   high temperature superconductors could not 
uncover that golden "killer app" that would   stimulate more investment into the space. 
over time the hype receded as it became   clear that the cuprates did not present a way 
towards room temperature superconductivity. the scientific community did not forget 
bednorz and muller though. just 16 months   after their discovery, the two won the nobel prize   in physics - the record for the fastest 
recognition in nobel physics history. ## iron & beyond superconductor research continued for another   high-temperature alternative 
to the cuprate superconductors. in 2001, a japanese team discovered an interesting 
non-cuprate superconductor - magnesium diboride.   its transition temperature was 39 kelvin. far below the cuprates, but at least 
much higher than the traditional low   temperature superconductors. unfortunately its 
behavior was conventional bcs, so a dead end. the next significant high temperature 
discovery came in february 2008,   when dr. hideo hosono reported a fluorine-doped   iron-based superconductor with a 
transition temperature of 26 kelvin. this opened up a new branch of 
high temperature superconductors   separate from the cuprates. at the 
outset, there was a lot of hope. a few months, another iron superconductor was 
found with a transition temperature of 56 kelvin.   but progress there has since stalled. and then recently in 2015 a team in 
germany published a paper claiming   superconductivity in sulfur hydrides 
at over 200 kelvin and high pressure. interesting, but again nothing that 
has real world industrial implications. and there have been some ... questions about 
superconductivity in these sulfide hydrides.   one recent controversial room temperature claim 
was recently retracted by nature magazine. ## conclusion the search continues for a room 
temperature superconductor. or even a relatively high temperature 
superconductor with fewer engineering   compromises than what we already have. is lk-99 really it? i don't know. but will 
it really change everything if it was? is   it really the next transistor? it 
is hard for me to believe that. when we dream of room temperature 
superconductors, we talk about things   like levitating trains, compact mris, 
economical fusion energy, and the like. well, they have been citing these things 
since 1986. many applications are already   technically possible with existing 
low-temperature superconductors.   but there are real economic 
reasons why we don't have these. for instance, magnets for maglev trains. the 
magnets are not a significant portion of the   financial cost for these machines. it is 
tied to the cost of the land, the labor,   the extensive planning, and the construction. and then there is always the 
chance that a room temperature   superconductor - whether lk-99 is it or not 
- cannot compete with existing solutions. look at the mri. intuitively, you might think this 
new generation of high-temperature cuprates would   sweep out the old superconducting wire tech 
used for those mris like yesterday's trash. but it turned out to be far more subtle 
than that. even today 30 years later,   80-90% of today's mri machines are still 
made with good old niobium titanium. just working these things into 
wires might take years. remember,   these things are layered cakes. imagine 
making a cake hundreds of miles long.   real world applications might be 
years and millions of dollars away. but hey, i hope i am wrong. i love the 
excitement around lk-99. no matter the   outcome, the fascinating science of 
superconductivity is having another   one of its unique moments. this only happens 
ever so often in the world. let's enjoy it.