- oh, no. whoa, i am cursed today. what is up fellow gamers. so far everything i
know about the eblaztr, i learned from this
single picture on reddit. and the fact that it comes with a gigantic hiking-style backpack. but i'm excited because
if this is the future of portable gaming, then it looks pretty good to me, sort of. okay, this one's gonna be complicated. and it's gonna be brought
to you by our sponsor. viewsonic. their elite xg321ug mini-led monitor offer is a 4k native resolution ips panel with 144 hertz refresh rate. it comes with g-sync ultimate r4 and a quantum dot color layer. so it's great for both
gamers and creators. learn more at the link below. (bright music) whether it's the illness
fog or something else, truthfully, i'm a bit confused right now because they sent me two graphics cards, two power supplies and
really no instructions. so why don't we begin by
opening up the eblaztr. wait! dear linus, congratulations. you've been chosen to do the eblaztr test. put together an eblaztr without a manual. this is totally not
because i haven't created an english manual yet. oh crap! it's a backpack mountable
full freaking computer. what could go wrong? first thing i did was lay the
thing down on the monitor. okay, hold on. i apparently get one small tutorial, how to put the legs on. okay. (laughs happily) this is an early prototype. this is their low volume production. they have apparently actually shipped some units to individuals. so it's 3d printed, but
they are apparently working on ejection moving parts for here, here here, here,
here, here, and here. and i mean, as it is, it works by now, it should be more clear
what we're looking at here but we still don't know
why we are looking at here. according to the creator, jonan bahnsen, he had grown tired of the
compromises of gaming laptops, high prices, poor thermals, and of course, lower performance compared
to gaming desktops. so why not have something
that achieves all of that? i mean, if the battery
life is gonna be negligible and you're gonna need a giant bag to cart the thing around anyway, you might as well save a buck and get the customizability
that a desktop affords. of course, the journey
from that concept to here has been complicated. and my journey from
this to a built computer is apparently going to
be very complicated. i should give plouffe a call. maybe he can clarify why
i have two power supplies and two graphics cards to start with. okay. truthfully, i have done
almost nothing so far but the reason i called
is that i wanted to get a better understanding
of the parts you sent me. i don't see a cpu, but i
have two graphics cards and two power supplies. is this is some kind of
special magic computer? - no, no, no. no, no, no. there should be a cpu with
the memory and the ssd. - oh, you're right, i see it. - yeah, it's in there. did you get it open? - well, you haven't addressed
my two power supplies and two graphics cards yet. - oh, sorry. yeah. so basically i was thinking of doing like an average gamer
build 751 and a 3070, but it can technically fit a three slot card up to 13 inches. so there's a 3080 ti and a 1000 watt power supply in there, if you wanted to go that route. - wait, so you asked me,
have i gotten it open yet, because you are expecting that
to be a challenge, i suppose? - maybe. - you know what, i think
you underestimate me. i don't want your lifeline. goodbye.
- okay. see ya. - we got this. whoa, i started taking off
screws at the top and... okay. this is neat. we've got some io pass through
here, network, front audio. so that's your headphone microphone jack. the two usb twos, two usb... where do you plug in display? (chuckles shortly) here's the back. so it seems to be stamped aluminum, which is good because it's lightweight but don't expect it to be the
strongest thing in the world, you know what i mean. i actually don't see any case fans. so i guess it better perform
like an open air test bench, 'cause it sure won't perform
like a case with cooling fans. these are locks. okay, well that one came off. okay. these appear to be quad ssd mounts. no shortage of storage
capacity in this thing. this bracket here seems to
be designed to accommodate pretty much any ac to dc power
brick that you could require for what seems to be a
24 inch gaming monitor, shark gaming. not a common brand here in north america, so i don't know anything
about this particular model. but i'd say that as long as you don't have a
super high profile brick. yeah, it should probably fit in here. as for how you would handle
plugging into a monitor that does not require an ac to dc adapter. yes, there does seem
to be a way to do that. you can either come down
here or it looks like this... okay. this piece can be permanently popped out. it's actually still held in place with these little spot welds here. so i don't wanna mess with that right now. hey, yeah, i've got
another question for you. - okay. - what is it that made you think i wasn't gonna be able to handle this? i got this. (laughs happily) - i don't know. there's no instruction
and there's nothing... it's a bit of a prototype. so there's no arrows or anything. did you open the back? - i did, it kinda fell off. (laughs happily) - okay. - so i think i'm in good shape, but it is also quite possible that i will end up calling you. - sure, yeah. it's small form factor. that's kind of the main hard part though is finding those tabs. so as long as you were able to get it off then you should be okay for the most part. - i always get it off. okay, bye.
- okay. - you know what though,
now that we've got it open, there's some really cool stuff in here that we should take a closer look at. first of all, this has got to be the flattest display port
cable that i have ever seen. and if i had to guess,
i would say that this is not meant to be like desktop
full size display port cable. this looks more like it's
some kind of ribbon cable used for display port
signaling in like laptops or integrated devices,
but that they have just... you could see probably soldered, a full size display part connection to, and then heat shrink wrapped themselves. and this is another cool thing. apparently this leg
design is patented by them and i can see why they would've done that. it's actually super cool. when you press the button, okay, you can see the teeth loosen up. so that's what allows the
feet here to move freely. okay. and as soon as you let go the teeth lock the feet into place. and they're not infinitely adjustable, but from the outside the adjustments are so fine that
honestly, i couldn't tell. i had to open it up and look
at the spacing of the teeth to find out what exactly the
adjustment granularity was. all right, we're going full board. 1000 watt power supply. for our motherboard, we've
gone with a b660-i gaming wi-fi from asus rog strix lineup. why this? because it has everything we need. dram dota 2s, one on
the front with cooling, one on the back with not as much cooling. ample vrms for the core i7 that we're gonna be installing. did i say core i7? i meant core i5-12600k. i guess they expected me to take the more reasonable
path for the build. team couldn't decide what
they wanted me to build today. something that makes sense or something that is
absolutely balls to the wall. so we've got corsair vengeance ddr5 4400 megatransfer per second, which doesn't sound that impressive until you learn that it is a cl-36 kit. which yes, for those of you who have not been paying close attention, for ddr5 is pretty darn tight. for cooling, we've gone
with the lga 1700 version of the noctua nh-l9i. that's the thing about
builds like this is that, while they can be big, you don't have a lot of
depth to them, right, because you're trying
to make them packable. you know what, i bet that's
why we went with the core i5 'cause those higher end alder lake chips really do spit out a lot of heat. lemme tap this. i assure you that was not
the fault of the tool, that was the operator. you can still safely sign
up for a notification for when the ltt store
screwdriver is going to arrive. there are different colors by the way. so you can see this
motherboard slides exactly in between these rails here, there's no room to move. a word of advice for eblaztr, you guys do not actually want to target tolerances that tight for mass production. that will be a problem for you. man, this is gonna look awesome. the length for my ethernet run is perfect, lands right in the two and a half gig port on my mother here. see that. but what i would've
thought they would've done is some kind of lower profile boot here especially if they're diying
their own cables and stuff. curiously, we actually
are not gonna be relying on any of the rear io of the motherboard. we're actually just going to use all of the front io headers. man this is actually gonna
be a super easy build. what were those guys worried about? they think covid addled my brain, can't build computers anymore. i remember when i was the tech tip man. while we're connecting the modular cables to the power supply,
i am extremely pleased to bring you guys finally the answer to what this random connector hanging off the 24 pin cable is. silverstone emailed me when i
expressed confusion about it in december of 2020 and said, "hey it's to allow the power
supply to detect voltage drop "and ripple changes faster
to improve voltage regulation "and ripple and noise performance." you know, i'm actually
liking this thing so far. instead of screwing into the top of the pci rear bracket here like we would normally do. the way they have it set up, you actually screw in from the bottom and it clamps it from the other side. i actually also do not think that this is the best card design for this particular chassis. you can see that that fan back there is gonna be completely suffocating. well, not quite completely,
but nearly completely. i don't know if this
card's a very good idea. this could be another spot where eblaztr could benefit from having
some additional mesh because almost any gpu
is gonna be designed to drop fresh air from the
front of the card like this. so you're gonna have that mesh cover here and anything that you can
even passively get rid of out the back of a card or
around the bottom of a card, that's gonna be a good thing. yeah, it might heat up the back
of your monitor a little bit but that's a sacrifice
i'm willing to make. i'd rather a cool gp and a hot monitor than
the other way around. yeah, this is a more
traditional style card. what's funny about this one though is it's actually a taller than usual. i don't know if either
of the gps they sent me are compatible, brandon. now you're cooking with gpu. do we have any clearance issues? no, okay. it can accommodate high profile cards. it feels like a high quality riser, doesn't say anywhere that it's gen four, but hopefully it is. i moved their weird 3d
printed pci slot cover from the outer slot to the inner one. and the reason i did that
was because i was hoping to actually still get
away with the 3080 ti. and i'm hoping to do that by having enough space
behind the card, see that, that it can kind of get rid of
some of that hot air somehow, hopefully, maybe but without
drawing all of it into the cpu. there's a little sandwich there. see that. oh, well now you can see it. oh crap! man, how am i making this worse? the thing is, i'm not saying
this is any less secure than a regular case. in fact, i would say it's
the opposite of that. the fact that you've got all of the load being born
vertically like this means is probably pretty good. the issue is that because the focus of this product is portability and like this could be thrown around in a backpack or something, i would like to see something
bracing the back of the cart. that's awesome. i mean, considering... how long did this even take? this took like an hour to film and sitting here talking to you guys instead of being focused on building and i have no instructions. now that i've had it fall apart on me, i think i have a much better understanding of how this is supposed to work. this clip kinda like holds
it and then the top piece and the other one kinda
cover it or something. wait, you told me to post it before closing it and i didn't do it. - [brandon] no, you didn't. - this thing looks so awesome, brandon. did you even get like glimmer shot of it? that looks amazing. now it's all closed up, it looks sick. you should just get some
brandon-ness going on. (bright music) you ready? classic. you close the panels before you... what is that? yeah, what are you doing? why are you mad? okay, is it this four pin? never plugging in that stupid
four pin connector again? well, did i plug it into
the wrong spot or something? no. see that's why i got
confused, silverstone. it's definitely heavier now. you know to the credit, this hinge design, i mean it's pretty good
considering how heavy it is but in an earthquake
you definitely notice. there's not much in the way
of postcodes on this board 'cause it's itx, but it
looks like it's a vga code and it didn't take me long to figure out that i did make a small boo boo. i never actually plugged in the pca riser. it'll come, i'm closing it up. the system has posted in safe mode. it might be because you are an idiot. all right. i don't really like this straight up thing that we got going on
here, but i can fix that. okay, it's definitely... they make these adjustments
look very easy in the video. maybe it's just a matter of like not being jacked enough,
but that is not that easy. i do wish this was a
little more attractive, if i have to see it above my... it kind of makes it feel like the monitor has gigantic like made
for children style beso, like i expect to see a huge
vtech logo here you know. technically nothing would prevent you from putting a bigger monitor on it. yeah, it's just visar. but good luck fitting it into
the backpack when you're done. oh, we're coming back to the
backpack, don't you worry. shark gaming, my first impression
of you is not favorable. it looks like a tn panel. thankfully it's 240
hertz, but i was right. this is in fact a tn panel. so i'm tryna run a torture test here. oh wow. cpu package 100%. i can definitely feel an
aura of warmth around it. that poor cpu cooler is
not getting fresh air but honestly i feel
like that might be a bit of a configuration error on our part because we could have easily put a higher profile cooler on here, and then i don't think it
would be an issue at all. it would do two things. it would a, be a bigger heat sink and b, allow the fan on
the top to draw fresh air in from outside the case rather than taking that recirculated air from our rtx 3080 founders, that's blowing a lot of hot
air around inside the case. did i remember to put thermal compound on? brandon, did you ever actually
see me put it on the cpu? - [brandon] no. - oh my god, do i have
to pull the whole thing? oh no. it's definitely not my
finest tech tips moment. you know what, i got thermal
compound all over myself and i was getting it all over things and i was like kind of annoyed. so i think i got a little
distracted at the time. let's find out. oh, i did put thermal compound on. - [brandon] well, there ya go. that's good. - well, why is that at a
100 freaking degrees then? i even got a pretty good spread. like that's fine. now my install is corrupt. - [brandon] what's going on? - i don't know. does this case work... yes, it holds hardware. should we have put a
slightly bigger cooler on it? yes. would i recommend using a founder's card? probably not. i would probably lean towards a different style of card, but none of that means that this concept doesn't work and that
your windows will break. what i wanna know next is how's the transportation
like in the backpack. let's not attempt its repairs but otherwise i think
we're just gonna move on. hardware info is gone. brandon, i had hardware info
on the desktop, it's gone. prime95 was the last thing i installed. i installed pro market hardware info before i installed prime95. prime95 is gone. the actual executable is gone. is this part of the
repair process, microsoft, you just remove all the last...? i mean it's kind of smart actually. yeah, i'm at 55 degrees at idle right now. the gpu's not even doing anything. we can't even blame the
gpu spitting hot air all over the place. and we're pretty much
reaching equilibrium here. so our rtx 3080 ti is performing
exactly as we'd expect. and in spite of all of that
heat being thrown around our cpu temps actually haven't changed. we're still sitting at
around anywhere from 50 to... actually yeah, they're all
sitting around 50 degrees on all the p course. wow, i haven't looked at this game on a tn monitor in a while. it's not better. (bright music) let's just put it in the backpack. none of it has anything
to do with the case. i will give you my personal
linus tech tips guarantee. now another thing that
eblaztr wanted to make clear is that this is not the
final form for their backpack and i should certainly hope not. it's really not anything special and the zippers broken. also speaking of zippers, there's an exposed zipper
both here and here, meaning that there will always be a zipper up against your panel
which is not something that i would recommend. is this really portable? is this a competitor for a gaming laptop for someone who lands
a lot or whatever else. right now, my gut feeling is, well, i don't know you guys. but let's put it on the back, let's cinch up the waist straps and we'll see if my feelings change. like i said, this zipper is broken, so i can't actually do it up. this feels a little sketchy. for a very specific customer, yeah, i could see a totalable, 'cause it's not just the case, right? like that's the thing you gotta remember. i could see a totalable
all in one gaming machine actually making a ton of sense. compared to other gaming aios because you can build it yourself, it's price competitive and
infinitely customizable. but i don't think this
one is designed for me. i just am not the target market. what i am is a person who will
tell you about our sponsor. micro center. micro center is one of the best places to shop for desktops,
laptops, computer components, monitors, tvs, network equipment basically all your technology needs. get the best prices and
selection on computer hardware and everything else technology at one of micro center's
25 locations across the us. new micro center customers
can get $50 off select cpus like amd's ryzen 5800x or intel's i9-12900k in store
only no purchase necessary. if you combine this coupon with their $20 off select motherboard and cpu bundles, you can
save 70 bucks in total. but what if you're already
a micro center customer? no problem there are still a ton of motherboard and cpu bundles available. so click the link below and
shop at micro center today. really? i am cursed today. i can't. the point is i get where
they're going with this but for the number of time that i actually have to
carry a full gaming rig i'd rather have an sff
and a portable monitor or something like that than fully commit to this form factor. and if i traveled a ton, well then i would probably spend the extra on something like an asus x13.