- all right, let's see what
we've got today, my friends. whatever could we have inside
this generic brown box? that sounded like, very metally, and not good when i
slammed it on the table. - [ken] so this is to prevent you from frying your brain with
those strong wifi energies. - ken, do i put my phone
in here to keep bill gates from hacking the matrix or something? i hate, i hate this. i hate this. i hate this. - [ken] as far as i understand, - yeah. - [ken] this little contraption is made so that you can put your router
in there to eliminate most of the harmful "harmful" emf frequencies that can cause you bodily damage. - that might be the
****ing stupidest thing you've ever said in your life. i mean, this is just a box. is there anything, this is literally it? - [ken] yes.
- the whole item? - so, first of all i don't see any reason why
this would stop anything short of if you're microwaving
something, second of all if you're trying to keep
harmful electromagnetic waves from your router from
escaping, that's just wifi. so you might as well
just not use your router. so to prove that this $160 pile of sh** is actually a pile of sh**. we're going to do a little
scientific experiment. i don't have a router on me. so instead i'm going to tether one of my phones using my other phone. okay. so we're gonna take my
iphone is going to be on 5g which kind of let that sit right there. so we'll capture all the 5g boogie men. then i'm going to turn tethering tether this oneplus to the
iphone to a speed test. then we're going to put
the actual shield on, and see if there's any difference. and either it will do nothing. in which case we wasted our
$160 or it will kill the wifi. in which case, we will have wasted $160 and made our wifi router useless. (laughter) well, this is not really a cage issue. this is a, i don't have great
service in the office issue. 0.3 megabits down. (groans) all right. well, let's see what happens
when we put the cage on. i bet it's going to be the same. if not slightly worse. oh, actually wait. perfect, i need a little
bit of extra protection. - [ken] oh! all right, let's go ahead
and run another speed test and see what we got here. oh, oh, oh. oh, this is very exciting. it fell off wifi. i guess it works. i don't see the phone
anymore and i hang up. i take it off. (ken laughing) hold on, hold on. i'm on oneplus, 9 pro. wait, wait. i'm getting seven megabits. wait, wait, wait, hold on. hold on. is this actually on the oneplus? or did i fall off the network? i know, is actually on the oneplus? this is revolutionary. we've now gotten 10 times
the speed with the cage on! wow, it really works! it cuts out all the negative stuff or it's not that this
thing is complete garbage. hang on. let me see it, wait. oh, oh, i felt the frequency. this is so dumb and take it from a guy
who's wearing a tinfoil hat. you can't just block
the harmful full waves of wifi while still having wifi. that's what. i need tune to
a new, different frequency. hang on. ah, there you go. ah, i feel better now. i feel better now. is there any mystery tech yet? hey, look at that. even got it. so, these are the beats studio buds. timeout. true wireless earbuds
with usb-c charging case. well, let me just, we're done with the airpods pros while
that actually went flying. - [ken] yeah. have you
never dropped them before? - i've done that before. it's fine. here's another one. i don't think you're
gonna follow me over here. i have never been a massive fan of the way that beats sound typically but in recent years, they've
actually gotten a lot better. - [ken] wait, that. (laughter) - what? what? - [ken] do you know what spam musubi is? - oh, the way it's wrapped right here? so the case, a little bit bigger
compared to the airpods pro which is always a concern, right? so we're going to do the
little side pocket check. so does this fit oh, easy, easy. there you go. look at that. instantly, beat studio
buds, please connect. oh, oh, these are actually really small. wait a minute. so that case is really deep. when you put the side
by side with an airpod you completely lose the stem and it because of that, it's much, much smaller. okay. actually let me put this in the ear and see how it actually sounds and specifically how it feels. that feels pretty decent, actually. i will say, i really like how you can pinch the stems on airpods pro. so you actually have
to push it a little bit which the way that the
button is positioned means that you have to kinda like
shove it into your ear. so i'll say $450 bluetooth headphones. the high res audio side of
the apple music doesn't really matter too much to me. like when i'm using these
things, i'm not sitting down for some master full experience
where i'm plugging it into a dac and all this kind of stuff. what i care about, really, is does this spatial
audio make it difference? nice space. that's pretty good. woo. wow. first impression. pretty good. there's some punch there. that's a little, little scoopy though. i'll say, not as bad as previous beats. it's a little scoopy in the mids, right? there's a lot of highs, a lot of lows. - [ken] that's beats. so no as spacial audio
on with the airpods pro let's see how this sounds. i can, i can hear a difference. yeah. that's actually a
fairly large difference. okay. so i'm going to give
my first impression here. i may change my mind after
spending more time with it the spatial audio, if you've ever listened to like gaming headphones,
the do like virtual surround sound. it's kind of that
similar effect where you're not necessarily hearing
different parts of the song but it seems like the soundstage
has been expanded, right? if you've ever gone back and
forth between like an open and closed pair of headphones, it's almost like this is trying to simulate that, specifically, with this song. the mix actually does
sound somewhat different. you can tell going back to back, but this specifically sounds good. like it does sound like i'm much more. i can kind of place the
instruments around me. it's interesting. oh boy. is that more mystery tech? that's my favorite thing. what's the realme gt? - [ken] why don't you
open it and find out? thanks for sponsoring today's video. - all right. let's see what's inside this
very expensive looking realme. gt box. oh, oh, we got the whole set up here. so no. do we have the realme gt? we also have the realme buds air 2, and a 50-watt mini usb-c charger. so, not only does this
have this snapdragon 8888, but it also is 65 watts,
super dark charge. 120 hertz display and a
sony 64 megapixel camera. so this is an example of the
stainless steel cooling system. apparently, will change
its color when you wave it over a lighter, anything heats up. oh, okay. all right. we're going to heat this up. this is wildly unnecessary, but why not? (tool whirring) oh, look at that, wow. immediately turns. - [ken] i mean, to be fair, like phones don't get
as hot as a heat gun. - no, but that's cool to
see how quickly it works how much is this again? - 450 euros. - seems like a pretty good deal. so if you're interested
in learning more about the realme gt. definitely be sure to
check it out at the link in the description and thank
you very much to realme for sponsoring this
portion of mystery tech. okay. is this just the mystery tech where i look
at a pc that's sitting here. this is this, this, this is it. this is the episode today. i just, oh. okay, then. so this, my friends is the
razor huntsman analog keyboard. now you might be wondering. analog? isn't that for
squares built in 1993? now a normal keyboard is
fairly straightforward. even mechanical keyboard. you press the key. the end. now, normally the way this works is that you're going to always
get that same field, right? every single key press is the same. however, with this keyboard,
you can actually customize it. so say you want your wasd keys to actually as soon as you push down
like a millimeter or so or you can even have on the same key press two actions bound. if that doesn't sound exciting to you. then, you're not a keyboard nerd. i'm pretty sure this is not cheap. - $250. - so, um. yeah, it better be good. so, before we even plug this thing in. the real test is always, how does it feel? so. ooh. wow. that's actually not bad. you can almost tell it almost
sounds like as damped, huh? - we just so happen to have the apex pro from steel series, which has
the same exact kind of gimmick. oh man, that actually is
really similar, isn't it? although, i like-- - the razors more solid,
which i'm surprised about. - oh! okay then. the logitech pro super light. now i've actually been playing around a little bit with
some of the super light mice. specifically, the glorious
pc gaming, whatever they, what's the name of that company? it's glorious pc gaming company. what, it's something like that, right? cause they're basically trying to say pcmr but they're saying it in a different way. do you know what i'm talking about? - are you, are you making this up? - no, no, no. you know what i'm talking about? - it is in fact, glorious pc gaming race. - yeah, glorious pc gaming race. regardless. i use the... what's the white? - the model, the model o wireless. model o wireless. thank you. now, um, i do just say this
packaging is very nice. well, let me, uh, (sniffing) i don't actually know
why i smell my fingers. - why?! every time! - okay. it's fine. - you always smell the fingers! - i'm preparing to pick it up! all right. are we all ready? that's not light at all. that's, that's... - i mean, - it's okay. it's not as light as i
thought it was going to be. all right, all right,
let's let's unwrap it. let's give it a fair shot. oh, that's a big mark against it. micro usb. not usb-c. now it does allow you to plug it in. it's got the little like clasp, so it'll hold on. and it won't fall out
during your rigorous gaming. so 25,000 dpi click tensioning
system, onboard memory zero additive, ptfe feet. and it weighs 63 grams. matt, can you fact check me? how much does the model o weight? this is similar. it feels like it's like
front heavy, right? like you can see if i just
kind of hold it like this, kinda like wants to fall forward. now maybe that's going to be helpful when i'm actually gaming. - normal model o weighs is 67 grams. model o minus, the lighter one, is 58. - 58, okay. so it is
pretty close. all right. i'll give them that. that's probably close enough that i actually can't tell the difference. - [matt] what i think is
hilarious is that your mouse and keyboard combo right now, cost more than most of our viewer's pcs. - how much does the super-light cost? - [matt] $150. - $400! - it cost a hundred. wait, what? model o wireless is $80. - i don't like the holes! - okay. so inside the logitech software, we've got the super light. so if i open it up, but i
mean, this is all really standard stuff or you can
create macros and whatnot but i mean, we're literally
talking about a mouse that has two main buttons, a
wheel and two side buttons. like there's not a lot of stuff
that you're going to want to do with this. let's
launch synapse, shall we? and see what we've got here because i think synapse can
be a little bit more exciting. thank you, razor for not making me sign up to your stupid thing. i can't stand it. you know, nvidia. i'm
going to call you out. stop making me log into your
account every time i need to update my drivers. and yes, i know you
don't actually have to. you can download it sideways,
but it's, it's, it's annoying. so this device requires a
usb 3.0 to work properly. so i plugged it into
usb two out of instinct but it actually wants me
to flip over to usb 3.0 so all right, fair. so we can automatically set the
actuation to 1.5 millimeters all the way to 3.6 and you can
change the customer release and or you can sync that actuation. so right now when i press
the cue key, i should only press it a little bit. yeah. see, i just barely
pressed in a little bit and it counts. if i press w. i have to press it all the way down - for $250, you can chase
and find reviews online of switches and just make
your own damn keyboard for a fraction or even the same price. and just get higher quality stuff. - i mean, i'm, i'm
happy with the keyboard. like, i mean, it feels good. i think it looks good. some of the synapse stuff is nice. - yeah, but if you want
the customization of it. at 250 bucks, you might
as well just do the searching yourself at that point unless you really want to have
something that's pre-built, and mostly premium, but that gimmick is not worth
it for $250 unfortunately. - it's one of those things
where, if you're really hardcore then you can get some use out of that analog sort of feature. - or profile. - yeah, yeah. yeah. and like having like
different actuation points for different keys make sense. but the thing is you
don't get, like it's not physical changing anything
with the key, right? it's not like you press it one. it's a little bit one that
kind of drops down a lot. it's all done in software, right? build it yourself, moral of the story. - except for the mouse. - except don't build mice yourself. that sounds hard. just like buy a model o. you'll be fine. i would argue, i would pause it. i would say that mystery
tech is a valuable member of society that offers marques pillows. and other such things, where
i've made it very difficult for the editors to cut
out that very long rant. all right. did you purchase these? or is marques secretly sponsoring this episode of mystery tech? - these were a present from andy. - oh! thanks andy. sorry. immediately, when it comes to austin
evans, the professional pillow reviewer here on youtube i am going to do what is the ultimately important thing to do to a pillow. (sniffing) (exhales) (sniffing) (exhales) yeah, they smell fine. what is it? uh. oh, no. wait. - there is one pillow that is finer. - is that a hash brown? you just give me a giant
mcdonald's hash brown? who's cactus jack? oh, cactus jack. wait, cactus jack. i know cactus jack. where do i know cactus jack? - you should know this. - cactus jack sounds so familiar to me. so this is the travis scott
chicken nugget body pillow. did you just say travis scott? how much did you spend on a travis scott chicken nugget body pillow? and if it is more than $4.99
with free dipping sauce, i'm going to be upset. - stock x has it at $140. well, cuddle action here. here we go. just look, don't worry about it. mmm, you can't hear me anymore. my mics touching the pillow. this is really comfy actually. - [matt] there's way too much gyrating. how do you get on a body pillow? there's a little gyration involved, man. this is probably the most comfortable item i've ever laid on. as part of filming an
episode of mystery tech. you know why that is? because i've never actually
laid on a body pillow before. i see why you have such a
big collection of these, ken. one of our fine friends sends over some of their merch, you know,
it's like, oh yeah, you know can you take a look at it? and maybe like tweet it out or something? i don't think anyone expected. this would be the way
that i would tell you to visit the link in the description to check out the limited edition mkbhd throwboys available for a
low, low price of $69.95. uh, uh? - so, believe it or not. - i don't believe it. - we went to frank and son and we came across a booth that we
weren't expecting to find. and we saw this thing and was
like, yes, we need to do this. - okay. i see glass. oh! look at that! that's actually pretty cool. so does that mean we get
rid of the chalk one? - not exactly but. - maybe - that was the intent.
- that was the plan. normally, i would hassle you guys on how much did you spend on this? but i'm sure it was affordable
and totally worth it. - six. - six, what? - six. - $6? - no. - $60, that's a pretty good deal. no? six, i don't know what... there's no other numbers
that start with six. - okay. yeah. we'll go with that one. - $600. - us dollars? - yes.
- yeah. - euros. - well, that's worse. (laughter) how's that look? ken, is that our new sign or is that way or it's way too big? - this light. uh, it's a black void too. this would work better on like an office wall that it would for here. - so, this goes into
my new personal office. - how come you get an office? you're not even here half the time. what?! - that's not true. i'm just gonna take this. i'll see you guys later. you asked for it and asked for it. it's finally time. so just as we promised, we hit 5 million subscribers took 12 years of making videos
to hit 5 million subscribers. but a promise is a promise. it's time to crack open the tesla tequila. i don't even have the words. i feel like i should have
like, planned something. cause it feels very celebratory but it has truly been incredible to not only have this many
episodes of mystery tech. which will have had the channel to be up and running for so long. it's crazy. right? i mean, 12 years ago
i was some 16 year old kid, literally in my mom's
basement, making videos. i used to get mad at my dad because the kitchen was right above me. he'd be walking around like
cooking stuff and i'd be like "i'm trying to record a video here!" we've gone from that
to the whole team here, making mystery tech.
making main channel stuff. it's an emotional day. it feels good. i pull it straight up. oh actually i got to cut the,
i got to remove the seal. okay, look. we might be 12 years and 5 million subscribers then, but we're not that fancy. so, of course, mystery tech
is not something that we make by ourselves. so, everyone come, come on in, come on in. this is a celebration. you're very excited for the tequila. i'm going to go ahead and crack it open right
now for the first time. we're almost there. hey!
- oh! - all right. that. (sniffing) whew! that's in tequila right there, my friend. (laughter) - yep. nope. yep. that's definitely tequila. - how much is thing again? - a lot of money, don't worry about it. - well, it's not for sale anymore. at stockx, it's several hundred dollars. - now, as you can kind of see why they don't design glasses like this. i made an absolute mess here. - you spilled roughly
$77 worth of tequila. (laughter) - every mill. we're going
to do this exact same thing. - every million of subscribers? - i mean, look! we didn't
even put a dent in it. - that's! - look. - remember, this is, this doesn't count. - so it'll take us eight mill. - they'll take us to 8 million. well to the first 5 million subscribers, the first like 700
episodes of mystery tech. thank you, guys, very, very much for watching, and thank you
very much for subscribing. ready? it's actually pretty good. that's actually really not bad - actually, yeah, that
was better than i thought. (laughter) - i can actually get behind that. - everyone's like, "one more!" thank you very much for watching. thank you very much for subscribing, and thank you very much for supporting us for the last 12 years. - and here's the next 12. (laughter) - don't make me cry. (laughter) - don't make me cry. tears of anguish.