- newegg now sells
refurbished pc components, apple products, and a whole lot more. is it any good? so, if you go on the newegg site, it is under the like-new category. and the idea here is that either newegg or their certified third parties
are refurbishing this tech, and then selling it directly on newegg. let's start out with graphics cards. 3070 ti for 350. 3080 for 490. 2070 for'0. wait, look at all these
things that are out of stock. all of it is out of stock. oh my god. so, let's just look at this 3070 ti. so, this is a zotac card. it is newegg refreshed and it is sold and shipped by newegg. so, this is theoretically a graphics card directly from newegg. so, it does look like newegg's $350 is actually not crazy far off of what these are selling for on ebay between 300 and 350 bucks. okay, that's actually not a terrible deal. let's go to desktop pcs. there's a bunch of abs systems. wait, what? wait, wait. they're all abs systems? what is abs? this is actually the cheapest gaming pc. and it is for $900, a core i5 13400f and a 3060. what? wait, hold on, hold on. so, they say this is $900, it's $100 off because it is refreshed. the fact that this is a
$900 system is wild to me, because in all of seven
seconds of searching, i found a brand new desktop
which has similar specs except a whole generation
newer graphics card for the exact same money,
and it is brand new. boy, i don't even need to buy one of these to tell you that you
should not do this at all. still gonna probably buy one to show you, but boy, that is just awful. add to cart. the best selling item on newegg refreshed overall is a mac mini? what? and it's an old
mac mini too for $140. this is the number one best selling item from newegg refreshed? oh, wait here, hold on, hold on. here's an actually decent price. a surface laptop 4 with
ryzen 4000 series for $350. and it is a limited-time
offer where it is $100 off. so, with that, my
friends, i have a plethora of newegg refreshed
items to take a look at. so, i'll see you on the other side when our bountiful harvest has come to allow us to
reap what we have sown. and we have sown a lot of
questionable decisions. there's a mix of items that
are directly from newegg versus from their certified resellers, but all of the items that we're looking at here
do qualify for this program. they're all going to have
that 90-day return policy, which is unique. that's something that, as far as i know, no one besides newegg does. so, you could buy one of these things and a couple months
later, change your mind, and they would still
allow you to return it. i would like it they also had long
warranties along with that. but a very, very solid return
policy never hurt anybody. inside, we have a surface. okay, well, so here's
something interesting. my vibes here, is this actually
refurbished by microsoft? this packaging was designed
with the planet in mind, like it's actually got a bag over it, which has the surface logo. oh, yeah, yeah, you can see exactly. microsoft surface laptop
4, certified refurbished. interesting. let's open it up, let's see. but the outside looks phenomenal. oh, they even got a little
paper for the screen. this looks really impressive. i will tell you that as of this second, without actually making sure it works, but just everything i'm seeing here, the goldest of gold stars. what's the color code for gold? give it more saturation,
no even more than that. yeah, right there, that's
how gold the star is. (scorching sound effect) so far, this is very, very promising. and if i remember right, this is actually a pretty
good deal on the surface. - [alex] it costs just a mere $350. - [austin] which is not cheap, but
this a couple of years ago when it came out, three years
ago, i think, three, four, actually, when did the surface 4 come out? oh, 2021. so, this system's only a few years old. when this first came out, this was probably like a
12 or $1,300 configuration. look, the surface ecosystem is quite nice, but i'll tell you, they don't update their
designs very often. the difference between this and a brand new surface
laptop is, i will tell you, quite minimal, especially
considering that this is what, a third the price of what it was new? like that's actually
very, very strong value. i do see a little bit of backlight bleed along the bottom edge. it's uniform though, which
almost makes me think that it might have just been like that. oh. oh, yeah, you can see that. so, just as i suspected,
with the windows taskbar up, it almost looks like there's a gradient. it's actually quite subtle. here's the thing, i feel like i'm giving this a little bit
more of a pass than i should, because it's not great to
have some lcd backlight bleed. but because it's so
uniform, it's on the bottom, and the taskbar will cover
it up 99.9% of the time, kinda willing to give it
a little bit of a pass, especially because the rest
of the screen does look great. and importantly, the touchscreen still seems
to be fully functional, unlike the last surface that
we looked at. (clears throat) yep. so, this is running the ryzen
7 microsoft surface edition, which is essentially the 4th gen ryzen, which is pretty solid, honestly. it's an eight-core chip,
tons of performance. eight gigs of ram, which is unfortunate. that is probably gonna be
one of the limiting factors. and then, it should have the
256 gig, yes, 256 gig ssd, radeon graphics, all of
which seems totally fine. now, the surface hardware is nice. let me do a little bit of
an evaluation to make sure that stuff like the camera
works and everything, but if we can give it a soft
pass for the backlight bleed on the very bottom of the display, i'm seeing a lot of good stuff here. speakers sound good,
everything looks fine. okay, i'm gonna do a quick typing test, just to make sure. i really like these keyboards. so, if i wanna buy essentially
the same system today, i would be paying $1,300 for it. mind you, it's with a 12th gen core i7, so it's slightly upgraded,
but honestly, not by a lot. and considering that this is
almost the exact same thing, it's one generation behind, and we're getting it for
not $1,300, but 350 bucks, the slight bit of backlight
bleed on the bottom of the display aside, everything else here
is two huge thumbs up. and at this kind of price, that is a flaw that i'm
absolutely willing to put up with. newegg, you might be onto something. so, this is what i am very
interested in checking out. now, when you look at gaming pcs that are refurbished from newegg, what you see are pages and pages
of stuff from abs, abs.com. i have a suspicion that
this is not refurbished, but instead, it's actually
just new old stock that they just weren't able to get rid of, and they put it in the
refurbished section of the site. okay, well, it just
ships in a rosewill case, which that's the other thing
that's a little bit suspicious. rosewill, i believe, is
still newegg's house brand. so, that's why i feel like this
is not a third party thing, but, in fact, actually just
newegg's in-house pc company. i don't know that for sure,
but that's my expectation. so, what have we got for our $900 buying a refurbished newegg pc? a little scratch on the back. actually, no, you know what? that's not a little scratch. that's quite a lot of
scratching on this side. so, i guess that means it's refurbished. great, i'm glad to know that it's worse than i expected it to be. what are we working with here? well, i'll say, at first
glance, okay, cable management. they're certainly using
a cheapie power supply, because it's got the mustard cable showing as well as the very cheap heat shrink. so, i'm assuming that they're using quite
low end components. no usb-c on this case. that's not great. if you watch our pc tutorial,
i talk a little bit about how, when you plug in a motherboard and you plug in all your power connectors, that you don't have to
populate all of your cpu power, but i generally recommend it. well take a look up here. they did not populate the
extra cpu four pin right here, which like i said in
the tutorial, is fine. all right. did they do cable management? yeah, they did. i can't run a computer by itself. so, of course i did what any sane, rational person would do, buy a refurbished monitor from newegg. (metal clinking) they shipped me a box that
not only sounds like this. there's no tape on it. look, look, i'm just gonna pull this out. so, they shipped it to me ready to open. what is making the noise? oh, it's just hanging out
in the bottom of the box. so, there's no screw to mount this. - [alex] sounds like you got screwed. (metal clinks) (alex chuckles) - now, this is a 240hz gaming monitor. now, it's relatively low end and it was actually quite affordable. but what you're getting here is something that theoretically will give you 1080p at a very high frame rate for a low price. screen looks all right. it's slightly scuffed, but not really anything
that i'd be concerned about. all right, let's see here.
so, is our monitor on? okay. ah, okay, well, monitor works. that's a big 1080p display. let's fire up our pc and see what happens. - [ken] oh, hey. - that was a weirdly long
time to make me worried. okay. wow. that is some of the rg and b. so, we have an rgb cpu cooler, rear fan, these little side panel things
on the front, which is only, it's weird, so it's like on
the side and it's on the front. it is booting though, which is nice.  so, with windows set up,
let's investigate, shall we? so, this is a 13th gen
intel core i5 13400f, which i will say is a perfectly
reasonable gaming cpu. it's nothing super high-end. it's paired with 16 gigabytes
of ddr4 ram, which is, as you can see, rgb, but
a very cheap kit of ram. we do have a 1 terabyte msi
hard, sorry, ssd, apologies, which is an interesting choice. and the piece de
resistance is an rtx 3060. now, if that sounds like
a strange configuration, because it is. this is a generation old gpu. this is a relatively modern, but still somewhat low end cpu. it's just fine. the board is really quite cheap. the case is cheap. i'm not seeing a lot of
value with this system. they have a link to abs.com. i'm curious, what is abs? i do not know anything about this brand. about. tell me more. the gaming label advanced battlestations. oh my god, is that what abs stands for? is that advanced battlestations? ain't buying (object slaps) (austin chuckles) let's actually try to game on the system. see what we can do. 'cause we also want to test this monitor before we move on to the
next phase of our evaluation, which i will say, i'm very excited for. all right, let's just play some cs2. i feel like cs2 is
actually quite a good game for a system like this, because we are pushing a 250hz monitor. i'm actually curious to
see how this monitor is. so, it's certainly not a
very high quality panel. i would say the contrast is not good. obviously, i'm in the beginning here, but the contrast is
pretty, it's mid at best. the refresh rate is very smooth. so, we are getting currently
260 frames per second. so, we are fully saturating the monitor. it is smooth. the thing is, so this is $130 monitor. now, the fact that it shipped
with the stand jangling around in the box is not
reassuring, i will say that. but what you're gonna hear is support for freesync and 240hz. 250 technically, i think
would be overclocked, but i'm running at 240. the only thing i'll say about the monitor that's less than ideal, besides the image quality,
is the osd is awful. it is so, so hard to use. but outside of that, it's pretty, it's a nice setup for
a more budget system. you should turn around, my dude. oh my god. this guy's as dumb as i am. okay, that's enough. here's the thing.
- hey, are you all right? - well, it's fine. so, it's pretty clear to me that for $900, this is a terrible value. but what if i told you
that there was a solution? what if i told you that newegg has exactly what the doctor ordered? buy a refurbished system
that's too expensive, spend more money on newegg, and fix it with this.
(box slams) what you might ask is this. well, i would be more than
overjoyed to show you. this is probably the thing i'm most excited for in this
video, i'm not gonna lie. inside this box should be our newegg
refurbished graphics card. (bubble wrap crinkles) harry's? did they send me ads with my... whoa, hold on a second. i've got a hellofresh ad, a harry's ad. is this a youtube subscription
box that threw up my box? let's see what we got here. now, if i remember right,
this was an okay value. and the idea of buying a
used gpu is, well, (sighs) it's getting better, because crypto mining has been out of fashion
for a little while. so, odds are most of the mining cards are being flushed out of the market. they still exist, but they're becoming a
little bit more rare. you still have to be careful. and i would hope that if someone tries to trade in a thrashed mining gpu, that newegg would probably not take that. but let's see what we got.
let's see what we got. so, nicely padded, and wow. okay. actually very nicely padded. that is a very long card. what the hell? i'm not sure what we're
compensating for here, but there's some compensation going on. look at how... this is the end of the gpu. this is how long the cooler is. and then, the shroud is
even longer than that. what the? this is a ridiculously long card. with our rtx 3070 ti big
chungus edition installed, it is showing up fine. so, 3070 ti, 8 gigs of
ram, yada, yada, yada. i will hop into "counter-strike" again, just to make sure the gpu functions. i'm sure it will be totally fine. now, i'll be honest, no one should actually upgrade
from a 3060 to a 3070 ti. but how much did i pay for this card? 
- [alex] $350. - that seems like a decent value. at first glance, buying a used, or sorry, refreshed graphics card from newegg actually seems to be a pretty decent deal, because you're getting something which has presumably
been tested and checked. it was well-packed. it showed up quickly, directly from newegg, short
of a bunch of ads in the box. that part's actually fine. but what i actually want to see here is because there's another part of this. newegg also accepts returns, or really, they accept
trade-ins for graphics cards. so, i actually want to see what happens. how much money are they
gonna give me if i try to trade this graphics
card right back into them? oh, they'll just tell
you the trade in value. okay, cool. so, we need to find a 3070 ti. $261. interesting. so, it's like gamestop in a
way where they just tell you, like, oh, how much they
would take your card for. it feels like newegg has
fluffed up their gaming pc list by just a bunch of generic abs
systems, which are just like, i just think that they just
added a bunch of random stuff in there just to make it seem like they have a bunch of
refurbished gaming pcs. i would not buy a
refurbished newegg gaming pc. it's in totally decent condition, but none of these are remotely
close to being a good value. so, this next item is the beginning of newegg refreshed as we know it. so, we have purchased a mac
mini directly from newegg, which has been lovingly
refreshed and restored. and as far as i can tell, is
the number one selling item from newegg refreshed, which
is incredibly weird to me. but let's take a look, because this was, i
think, quite a good value. inside, we have, well, that's a mac mini. and what the... this is a, okay, that's a very cheapy looking
power cable, but that's fine. so, a 2014 mac mini, which i will say looked exactly
the same as new mac minis. this is a very affordable system. we paid less than $200 for this, right? - [alex] yeah,
we paid just under 150. - now, looking at this system, short of a little bit of
dirt, it's quite clean. there's one decent little scuff here, but it's on the back, no
one's ever gonna see that. ports all look to be fine. this is in pretty good shape. and i forget, i think this is the mac mini you could still take off or no? didn't this open? - [alex] also, it's 4th gen intel. - oh, 4th gen, oh. eh. okay, that's not great. now, if you want a basic system, assuming that this was fully functional, this is not terrible
for less than 200 bucks. if it would turn on, that
would be really great. i heard it. this is a hard drive. i hear
the hard drive clicking. i don't like the fact
this is a hard drive. this has a hard drive? - [alex] yeah, one terabyte. - oh my god. - 5400 rpm.
- ah! i hate it.
(alex laughing) why is this the number one bestseller? to put a lid on this, you can buy a brand new m2
mac mini today for $600. so, every older mac mini has to essentially be below that price. let's take a look to see
what we're working with here. okay, so here's something
that i am happy about. it does have 16 gigs of ram. if i remember right, this one
was a little bit ambiguous as far as what the actual spec of it was. so, at least it does have
a 16 gigabyte update, which is nice. it does have the iris
graphics display, yep. and it does have the
one terabyte hard drive, which is just disgusting. the problem is, is that you
can't really update this to modern mac os. and honestly, you've got, you've got to tear this thing
apart and put an ssd in it. it's time to redeem ourselves. because, newegg, it's
been a roller coaster. we've seen some great deals,3 we've seen some terrible ones. but we've got two items
to close this video out, which i think are gonna
single-handedly save everything. first of all, we have
ourselves a fully refreshed, i'm waiting for the dramatic
reveal, of the iphone s, ew. this is like excalibur? look how hard this thing is in here. okay, come try it. try
to get the iphone out. (both laughing) (phone thuds) ah, he got it! you broke
your finger. (airy laughs) - oh, man-
- well, it was securely packaged. we'll give them that. so, this is a second generation
product red iphone se. so, we're gonna fire this thing up and see what's up with this. i will give them that this is incredibly, incredibly clean-looking. so, we have set up the device. one of the questions i have
is on the battery though, because i think they said that every device would have
at least 80% battery life. battery health is 100%. - ooh.
- yo, this is a new iphone. no one has used this iphone. the fact that it is perfectly clean. i don't understand the
backstory of this thing, but this is 100% charge on iphone se. i'll tell you that while
this is like a decent phone, its battery is probably one
of the biggest downsides. so, essentially, the iphone se, and they actually still sell this, they sell a third generation, which is a slight update from this, but essentially, this is
like an old like iphone 6 or iphone 8 style design, just with slightly more modern specs. and this is a little test
of the iphone se camera. so, it's certainly gonna be a
little bit on the older side. there's only one lens, but
what we're getting here is a pretty decent phone
for the low, low price of... - [alex] $174. - i'm glad it's new. 'cause $174 is a lot for this iphone se, especially because i think
you can find iphone ses, admittedly, you have to get
them out of prepaid carriers, so they're gonna be locked,
but for like 15 bucks. there's one very conspicuous package here that i have been waiting
to open this entire video. it is one of the items (chuckles) that you could purchase on newegg. and i'll be real with you. this is the entire reason
why i wanted to do this video. behold, my friends, the goat of all goats, the samsung galaxy z flip. - [joanna] oh my gosh, i'm so shocked. - you might be shocked. you'll also be shocked
to learn that this is one of the cheapest items
from the entire video. i actually think the cheapest
folding phone anywhere on the internet, and it's dirty, as all good value should be, because if you can look
past the filthy exterior, what you'll find is a
heart of gold inside. this one has a serial
number etched on the glass. what the (object slaps) do you see this? that's like a serial number. actually, i don't even know what that is, but something's etched on the glass. this was probably like a
corporate phone or something. yes, it's etched on the bottom glass too. oh, that screen's good.
wait, the screen's good. yes, the screen's good. this phone that cost $1,450
a mere few years ago, i purchased from newegg for $119. you heard me right. not $1,019. not $919. no, no, no, no, no. $119. now, you may ask yourself, austin, why is your voice getting high? it's almost like there's
a reason why this is $119. and to that, i would say, no, (laughs) no reason. - [alex] are you sure? - yeah, look, there's one slight issue, which i knew going into it, which is why i got it
for such a good deal. it might be locked. - [alex] uh-huh. to? - it's locked to a carrier
that everyone loves. (alex laughs) - [alex] okay. - it's locked to sprint. - [alex] oh my god. - you know, sprint is
part of t-mobile now. i'm sure i can take
this to a t-mobile store and get it to activate. - [alex] they'll be
like, what the hell is sprint? - look, it was $119. that's like 93% off. oh no. - [alex] is it screaming at you? - the sprinting is beginning. sprint network unavailable. we're sorry, we're unable to
connect to the sprint network. but look, it says t-mobile too. i bet you, i could take
it down to the store and it'd be totally fine. maybe this works, i'm not sure. (staff laughing) what the hell happened here? (staff laughing) wait, what happened to the mac mini? i'd like to thank you sincerely
for watching this video. hopefully, you've learned something. i've learned that newegg
has a lot of stuff, and apparently, no one's bought any of it, because we're just finishing up the video, and we're looking around and realizing that there are no reviews
on any of these items. and i think i know why, because no one knows
that this even exists. it's actually not that
bad. (clears throat) i don't know why my voice
is cracking like that. i'll see you next time. subscribe to the channel
for austin's z flip corner, where i review stuff that
no one wants that's broken. but i got a great deal.