- all right, you have $1,300 to spend on an android slab phone in 2024. why would you get any other phone? no, seriously, why would
you get any other phone? this s 24 ultra has taken the best things from every other ultra high-end phone and stuffed them into one place, so anything that you could possibly value, it has pushed to the max. and there's just multiple cherries on top, just sprinkled all over the place. this phone sets the tone for 2024. (soft upbeat music) so the formula for samsung's ultra phones has evolved a little bit over the years. at first, it was just the most numbers, the biggest megapixel count,
the most zoom and all that. then it added the s pen and got a little more refined
and it replaced the note. now it's just everything. it's just everything in one place. it's all the best hardware, all the best software i can
think of all in one phone. so on the outside, like i
said in my early impressions, this phone looks almost the
same as last year's phone, but if you think this
phone is almost the same as last year's phone, turns
out you're missing a lot. so the more you use this phone, the more you look for weaknesses, the more impressive it gets. so maybe what? you're a screen snob, right? you like to pixel peep, maybe you were thinking about getting one of the ultra
high-end oppo or xiaomi phones just for an amazing screen. all right, well, look no further. literally one of the best
screens than any phone. s24 ultra has dropped in a class leading 6.8 inch quad hd amoled
display and it is awesome. these ultra phones have
had 120hz ltpo for a while and they've been this really sharp quad hd for a while now too. but now on top of that, two new things, one is it's completely flat
and two is its much brighter. so there's been this whole new batch of like 2,500 plus nit phones in the past couple months that i've seen. this i think is the best looking
one that i've seen so far. so now it's up to a max 2,600 nits, which is awesome outdoors or anywhere. but it also gets extremely
dim at night too, without any of the weird banding i've seen in some other phones. and they flattened the display completely and brought the display
right up to the very corners with some of the thinnest
bezels we've seen all the way around. plus there's also this new
anti-reflective coating on this gorilla glass armor that makes a noticeable difference with certain light hitting
it at off axis angles. and then there is a crazy fast
ultrasonic fingerprint reader underneath to top it all off. and you know, maybe i
wish the touch target was a little bit bigger,
but that's about it. honestly, if you're a screen snob, it doesn't really get better
than this one right here. this is the phone you should get. okay, so what if your primary
concern is battery life? well, you could always
get the energizer phone that we saw at ces at one time, but as far as reasonably
sized flagship slab phones go, it doesn't get much better than this. again, they're keeping a 5,000mah battery in one of the best
performing battery phones from the past two years, despite making it thinner
and keeping the s pen. so you might as well get this one. still got 45 watt wired charging, you still have 25 watt wireless charging and just battery life-wise, i was able to have long
days with no problems, with six hours plus screen on time. i was able to baby it into
getting two full days, that's at 1440p, at 120hz
and with high brightness use. so yeah, why get anything else? so okay, what if then
it's just performance is the main thing that you care about. okay, so we're seeing all these phones with the snapdragon 8 gen
3 starting to come out and they're looking really good. great high-end performance, there's efficiency gains
all over the place, plus this phone pairs
it with 12 gigs of ram and it is a multitasking champ. and if it's a stylus
you're into, i already know you aren't really
considering any other phone, the s pen is basically
the only high-end stylus still going in slab smartphones. it's really good for note-taking,
drawing, highlighting, all that stuff. but if you're like me and
you hardly ever use that, there's still the gaming performance and the everyday performance. there's the newly added rate tracing plus a 90% larger vapor
chamber to cool the phone for much longer stuff. turns out it's an a plus. now you could always get a gaming phone and squeeze five to 10% more frames out of a snapdragon 8 gen 3 with some huge badass cooling
setup, and that's great, but then you also have to
accept all of the sacrifices that come with said
gaming phone over this. and do you really want
those extra frames that bad? depends on who you ask. okay, cameras, there's a lot
of other phones out there that you could buy if your 1,300 bucks specifically has to go
to the best cameras. you know the pixel just
won the blind camera test. sony has the best manual mode, like there's other great camera systems. but here's a way to simplify it, i think in evaluating smartphone cameras, there's basically two ways to review them. there's the utility, the
actual technical evaluation, and the aesthetics, the art
of it, the subjectivity part. and i think utility-wise,
like on paper, specs-wise, this camera's got it all. like you've seen this camera array before, there's four cameras on
the back of this phone. turns out, they're
basically the same cameras as last year's s23 ultra except for one. so there's a primary camera, an ultra wide and a pair of two different
telephoto cameras. the primary camera is still the ridiculous 200 megapixel sensor with
all the same pros and cons. it's consistent and
versatile across the board. it has great dynamic range. it's a quick shooter with quick auto focus and it's also always bending
down to 12 megapixels and you should almost never switch it to the 200 megapixel mode unless you have incredible lighting. it has an ultra wide with a bit of distortion near the edges, but it's actually meaningfully wider than the primary camera, so
it's really fun to shoot with. even though the automatic
macro mode from it looks like trash and you
should just turn it off anytime it turns your pictures
from this to this, pro tip. and then it has a medium
range, 3x telephoto camera that kicks in smoothly and
matches the colors and exposure from the main camera really well. and so the one new thing
in hardware this year is they've gone from a
10 megapixel, 10x camera to a 50 megapixel 5x camera. so technically, shorter
optical zoom range, but i would say with the extra resolution, it is actually more powerful. it means all the photos in
the gap between 5x and 10x look sharper than last year. and then you can literally put
the 10x photos side by side from the s23 ultra and the s24 ultra and the new 5x cropped
in actually looks better. plus you can still zoom all the way in and shoot at a 100x if
you still wanna take ultra stable pictures of far
away objects like the moon. but basically what i'm
saying is utility-wise, this camera system
checks every single box. it has everything. so from there you get into the more
subjective aesthetic differences which you could always
lean one way or the other. i think, i mean, looking at these photos, they're still very much samsung's slightly extra process-looking, a little bit extra contrasty,
a little bit higher exposure, a little brighter colors, that still happens with these photos. so you could still convince yourself to lean pixel or even iphone, but if you just wanna be able
to check every single box, why look anywhere else? honestly, the changes that you notice more aside from the actual camera quality are just like features using it. like the s24 ultra shoots
everything hdr by default now, it's actually in google's
new ultra hdr format. so when you have specular highlights or big dynamic range
differences in a photo, it will tastefully crank up that stuff for a more dramatic looking
picture on the phone screen, similar to what pixel
and iphone already do. and this passes through all the
way from capturing the photo to viewing it in the gallery,
and then one more step, to actually publishing it on social media. so samsung has worked with
instagram and snapchat for native quality photo and
video uploading pipelines because at the end of the
day, once you take the photo, what are you 99% of the
time planning to do with it? share it. and i think this is important
for a lot of people, one of the reasons i have
carried an iphone for years is one of the things
you can always count on is the photos and videos
in third party apps are going to look just as good as if they were captured
in the main camera. and now you can actually
say that that is true now about photos and videos from this phone, at least in instagram and snapchat. all right, maybe you're a software person, maybe the top of your list
when buying a new smartphone is you want the smartest smartphone. it's gotta have all the
software and ai features. and honestly, it should have a
nice long roadmap ahead of it of on-time software updates, sounds like i'm describing a pixel but turns out, this phone now has a ton, a ton of helpful ai features built-in that are actually good, they make a meaningful
difference to everyday use. now the funny part about a lot of this is a lot of these features are made in partnership with google, as you'll see. and i can't help but keep thinking like it feels like samsung needs google to have all of these
features in their phone to compete especially against the iphone. but then google, now their own phones are a
little bit less competitive, but it's probably worth the trade off because now technically
they're helping to compete against the iphone. it's this weird like thing
where they need each other. i think it's fascinating and probably worth its own separate video, maybe let me know with a comment or by subscribing if
you'd be down to see that. but that's all the
background, all of this. so we were just talking
about photos a second ago, the second you're done taking a photo and opening it up in
samsung's gallery app, there's a ton of useful ai driven stuff that you can do with it. and it's kinda all based
on what sort of scene it auto detects that you've taken. so lots of photos just end
up with a remaster button where you click it and then
it can add some contrast and brighten things up
a little bit as needed and gives you a solid before and after. but if your photo has
some glass or a window, it'll show you an erase reflections button and then you can literally go in and circle the reflections
you wanna get rid of and it'll generative fill what should actually be in the glass. and it works pretty well. now with this photo, i didn't
take it in portrait mode but it's recognized that there's a subject and so it'll offer to add background blur. and even without a bunch
of extra depth information, it analyzes the subject and
it lets me add a little bit or a lot of background blur with a pretty good cutout, if you ask me, to just create a portrait
mode shot out of thin air. but if you ever really,
really wanna go crazy, there's a whole separate magic editor that feels exactly like what
we just got with the pixel minus any restrictions, it's never told me it can't do something. so you open any photo,
hit that edit button, and then there's this little blue green button with the stars, that's samsung's new magic editor. and once you're here,
you can just go nuts. you can move the subject around a photo and have a generative
fill in the background. or you can have it remove things entirely from the foreground or
the background of a photo, like photo bombers or just
unnecessary random objects. i actually found this super useful. but probably actually my
favorite one, underrated, you know how normally when
you need to tilt a photo, like fix the horizon,
you end up cropping in and losing some of the
outside of the photo? you can still do that but
with this magic editor, you can open it up and tilt the horizon to whatever angle you want,
and instead of cropping, it will literally generative
fill in the outsides of the photo, which works very well because usually the outside of the photo is the least important part of the photo. you can get away with generative fill. and by the way, literally all
this stuff works with photos you download to the phone too, not just photos you've
taken on the camera, but photos you just get
wherever just like the pixel. now i also find it hilarious that if you use the magic
editor to alter a photo on this phone, it'll
add a little watermark to the bottom corner
with these little stars so that you know that this
photo was ai manipulated, which is good, that's a good
responsible thing to do, especially if you're gonna
upload this to social media. but then you can also
immediately erase that watermark with a built-in object removal tool in samsung's photo editor app. there's a nice little
section in the settings where samsung's tucked all of
the ai features of this phone. it's called advanced intelligence, instead of artificial intelligence. still ai though. that's where you get stuff like the live phone call translation feature or the new voice recorder app getting much improved speaker labels and summaries and transcriptions. the samsung browser will now
do summaries of webpages. this might all sound very familiar, but the best new one in my
opinion is circle to search. now google lens has been
around for a long time, in my opinion, one of google's
most underrated products. so people might have already known that you could basically do this already, but it would take several steps. circle to search, just makes it one step. it's much faster, it's pretty awesome. you literally just hold
down on the home button or the gesture bar at the
bottom and then circle or tap whatever on your screen
that you wanna google search and it just immediately googles over the top of whatever you were doing without leaving that
app and it's so useful. just, even during the week
i've been using this phone, i've searched pictures,
parts of pictures before, it almost always works, just like uploading it to google lens. i've searched objects right in front of me through the camera view finder. i've searched random landmarks. you can also search text and you can even append
text to your search. and i was just constantly
impressed by how fast it is, and it basically works as
expected every single time. the one fidgety part is
sometimes selecting text gets a little weird. using the s pen can
solve that a little bit to just get a more precise selection. but yeah, once you do it, it's much faster than if
you're gonna use google lens, having to like take a screenshot and then upload it through lens and then maybe have to crop
it and the whole thing. this is just fast. now real ogs will know that
there used to be a feature on pixels called now on tap. it was like the same exact
thing, hold the home button and it would just google
whatever was on your screen and help you out but that
was everything on your screen and they kinda ended up wrapping
that into google assistant. this is just so much
faster and more selective. also, pixels are gonna get
this feature very soon as well. but then bonus points, if
you really love software, samsung is now promising seven
years of security updates and seven generations of
major software updates on this phone, on this s24 lineup. i assume seven generations
of software updates is basically seven years. that means this phone will
be up to date in 2031. loving that. so we know the common wisdom
was that if you wanted four, five, six plus years of software updates or if you want every single
little software and ai feature, you basically had to go iphone or pixel. but now that this phone also has that, why get anything else? but speaking of the iphone,
they're going at them too. now i know i said in the
beginning of this video, $1,300 slab android phone, so
i know the iphone 15 pro max was never really on the table,
but if we're being honest, samsung has never been shy
about competing directly against the iphone, so why not take some of the
best stuff from there too? they weren't being subtle about it. so they've got this shiny
brand new titanium color with titanium rails on the s24
ultra, just like the iphone. they have flatten the screen and the sides and made boxier corners all
the way through the lineup, just like the iphone. they have moved to a max 5x telephoto lens like i talked about earlier,
also just like the iphone. they also have this new always on display that doesn't just show the time but shows your whole wallpaper now, kinda like it's half awake
just like the iphone. thankfully, you can also turn that off and save some battery,
just like the iphone. you can also now long press
to select an object in a photo that automatically cuts it
out and makes it a sticker you can use in other apps,
just like the iphone. and there's even these new
lock screen widgets now that look exactly like the iphones, like copy my homework but don't even worry if
they know you copied it. these two are gonna
keep copying each other till the end of time, none
of this is a surprise, it's just at the end of the
day we are technically winning because they're making each other a little bit better bit by bit. but at the end of the day, s24 ultra, i really do feel like, it feels like peak slab phone. and there's also a whole bunch of stuff i didn't even really
mention with this phone. the haptics are really nice,
i didn't even get to that. now there's ai generated wallpapers, a whole section for 'em,
if you're into that. and it's nice that the ai stuff
is mostly kinda tucked away in ways where you don't
ever have to use it if you don't want to, but if you notice it
and it's helpful to you, bam, turn it on, could
be your favorite feature. really the only things that i miss, from the pixel specifically, are call screening and now playing. so really the best argument
not to buy this $1,300 phone is the fact that it's a $1,300 phone. and the truth is you
can get 98% of the phone for much less money. you can see it in samsung's own lineup. samsung's own s24 plus
has a 4,900mah battery instead of a 5,000. it has a 6.7 inch display instead of 6.8 and it drops the s pen and
one of the telephoto cameras for $300 off. and you know you can get the regular s24, again, for much less money
with almost as much phone. so you don't have to spend
1,300 bucks on a phone. but if you are going to, and you put the word ultra in the name and you stuff as much stuff in one phone as you possibly can, this is
the one that you should get. this has all the things; it's reliable, it's
fast, it does everything, it checks all the boxes, it sounds great. it kinda feels like an ad when i just say all these positive things
about the phone but it's not. until right now, this video
is sponsored by ridge. the ridge wallet is iconic at this point. it's a minimalist, modern wallets like the opposite of
those old school wallets. it's got the patented dual
track design that expands to hold one to 12 cards while
being as slim as possible. and at this point, there's
like 30 plus different colors and styles including carbon
fiber, burnt titanium and forged ember. this one is the forged ember, so it's got these little red
flex in it, which look cool. you can also get accessories for it, so if you wanna carry cash,
you might want the money clip or this one has the cash strap. or if you want the air tag holder, you can get one that
holds in the air tag to it so you never lose your wallet. and on top of all that, if you get one and you don't like it, you can return it within 99
days, no questions asked. so if you wanna grab one, you can get 10% off using code mkbhd or go to ridge.com/mkbhd. tell 'em i sent you. either way, that's been
it for the s24 ultra. thanks for watching. catch you guys on the next one, peace. (soft upbeat music)