- what's up guys? today, i have a flamethrower. man, my flamethrower sucks. - whoa, what is that? - hey, how come chris always gets the cool flamethrower? that's not fair today. today, we're gonna hit an ice sculpture of logan paul with the flamethrower. but first, we gotta make some popcorn, and then maybe a nice steak dinner, also i have a mattress i
peed on i have to get rid of, ice cream. it's going to be epic. watch till the end, logangsters. so our first course of action is we're just gonna make some popcorn. i took the plastic off. all right, calm down
environmentalists. right there. yeah, we gotta get some popcorn ready for when we burn logan paul. hey, bubba. hey, good boy. - who wants a popcorn? - this is a very well-trained bear. hey, who's a good bear? yo, i love your shirt. - thanks. - that's such a great shirt. - i got it at shopmrbeast.com. - wow, that's such a great shirt. - yes.
- do you moisturize? - i do. and i have a shirt
that shows that i do. - yeah, this looks pretty good too, but we'll get to that later, flamethrower it. - that's very nice. - i don't know about you guys, but i don't like my
popcorn extremely burnt. i'm allergic to popcorn, i think. chris, you burned my popcorn. - i'm sorry. i mean, that
piece doesn't look too bad. - oh, wait. it's still on fire. clear. not gonna lie chris, you
might be good at moisturizing like you're really sexy shirt says, but you're not good at making popcorn. - i'm not. kinda did. - you should stick the moisturizing. i noticed some of them
didn't like our new tiger, you're not a true jake
pauler, get outta here. chris, i really want some pizza. - hey, eric, you got a pizza, right? - oh, yeah. you're italian.
- you're italian. - you think that i got a pizza just because i'm freaking italian? - i mean, yeah. - i actually do, but - yeah, i knew it. give it here. - it's not gonna be
happening all the time. - it's a fact, italians
always have pizza on them. here, can you make this real quick? - yeah. - i know you guys are pretty hungry so we're gonna make a pizza real quick. i'll share some with you. how's my pizza looking? chris! they got a little burnt. i'm starting to get a little
concern with you in cooking. you have a bad habit
of burning everything. - it's hard to regulate the temperature. this side's not bad. - yeah, but i just promised all our viewers some pizza. don't eat that. no. no. all right guys, chef beast here. here you go guys, here's your pizza pizza. all right, well, it just so happens my videos are fucking expensive as hell and i need money, especially
to pay these guys. - you know, this pizza is fire, and you know what else is fire? this merch you can get at shopmrbeast.com. - they're jake paulers,
they know the deal, shopmrbeast.com go cop merch. all right, next thing, i'm howtobasic. - hey, don't get it
all over my sexy merch. - oh. - i made to throw it over there. i'm so sorry, cameraman. oh my goodness. - get out here.
- get out here. - we don't need you.
- we don't need . - hey, hey, come on. - you camera works sucks, dude. - come on, i've camera here.
- get out of here. - all right guys, i'm howtobasic and my friend's gonna make eggs for me. - honestly, chris, the eggs look perfect. - yeah, i would not grab that. it's probably gonna be molten hot. - know what? let's make a full
course meal for our viewers. there's your eggs, there's your pizza. what else do you guys want? all right, let's make them some toasts. they like their toast burnt. do what you've been doing. hey ladies out there,
get you a man who knows how to handle a flamethrower. here's your toast, nice and cooked. still a little fluffy. i know that's how you guys like it. all right, there's toast, there's the pizza, - and there's some egg. - there's a little bit of egg. here you go, i know you guys are hungry. i'm gonna sit you guys down. enjoy your dinner. wow, you guys ate that fast. all right, let's flamethrower
some epic things. as you all know, the fire nation attacked, and then the air bender
had to save the day. so let's see if that still
holds true 2000 years later. - chris, how am i supposed to fly now? i'm sorry to announce,
but the fire nation won. that's why we're all
enslaved to kanye west. all right, chris, i could
use a little moisturizer. just a little. hey, hey, hey. - just a little, right?
- yeah. - i use that much like, daily. - next we're gonna torch some moisturizer. and if you're like chris
and moisturize yourself, go to shopmrbeast.com, you get an i moisturize shirt. - weren't those bottles
white a second ago? - they were. now it's like
the new premium black. - for those of you hardcore moisturizers, this stuff really gets the job done. if your moisturizer isn't
300 degrees fahrenheit, then it's not good. the next thing is this mattress, but there's a bear on it. what do we do? - see if we can lift
it with the bear on it. - wait chris, be careful. the bear might attack. - all right, now that the
mattress is 140 pounds lighter, let's pick it up. that's the pee stain right there, right? - yeah, actually i spilled tea on that. - like pee? - tea. - like with a p pee?
- tea. - you peed on it? - i teaed on it. - teaed on it. - i peed on it. - we agree that you peed on it? - yeah. - that's how you accept it. - hey, stop peeing on my mattress. i'm trying to feed the dog.
- you told me to go to shower. i'm just kidding, man. come on. we gotta shoot the rest of the video. you know, you always walk over there. you always do this. - i don't think he's
stopping anytime soon. - i think he's gonna stop like, right... and he's out of breath. he's just really going for it, guys. - outro's can only be 20 seconds. - look what i found. - oh, wow. - there's a . richard popped. all that remains of richard one. i think we should have a funeral. what better way for richard
to go out than this? we have to cremate richard. - cremate him, he deserve better. gone, but not forgotten. - i'm done. - that was our eggs. - i don't care. delete my channel. tell richard i'm done. - the eggs just got cooled off, man. - i can't zoom in any further, he's way out there. - top of the morning to you, laddies. we got a cooler. so, see this viewers? feel it, it's pretty cold. and actually it's cold. we're gonna put in here. we're gonna close it, karate chop, flamethrow it, and let's
see if he keeps it cold. you're doing a good
job sitting on the van. everyone saying, "eric's doing
a good job sitting on a van." - thank you. - i'm editing this so it's gonna say, "boo, you suck." hey, everybody see, that
guy sucks right there. that guy pees on his mattress. - i peed on it. that guy sucks over there. - hey, camera one, camera two, blind eye. - camera one sucks. you come up here and you sit on this freaking truck, camera one. - it's a van. - hey, camera two, say sorry camera one. camera one, say sorry camera two. - sorry, camera one. - camera one say it. - sorry, camera- - two cameras will live in harmony. - hey, look it changed the color of it. - wait.
- oh, wow. it's actually still cold. - oh, wait, what? dude he burnt this thing to a crisp and this water's still cold. - it made it into a sprinkler. you can water your plants now. - ah, it's hot. - is it? - ah, this pizza. - hey, that's the viewers pizza, share. - hey, you want your pizza back? - hey, hey, camera one. - camera one? - you're really pushed it. - we got a little dispute going on. camera two, play nice. camera one, get the fuck away. you know this is camera two's territory. - yeah, i'll just sit on the pee mattress. right, do it. - so what i want you guys to do is i want you to comment down below. how do you want your steaks? medium, well, rare? comment down below. we'll try
to cook them how you want. this is now a cooking channel. call me mr. cooking. - hear what? - wow, chris. i'm actually really impressed. - i don't jump around with my steaks, man. all right, first taste test goes to bubba. you ready, bubba? sit. good boy. oh, missed it. ate it without even chewing
it. he loved it so much. look at these, got hot steaks here, boys. - well i knew... dude, i knew eating a
steak and moisturizer would be a great idea. - hold on, i got some bread for you guys. i'll be right back. - steak and moisturizer
is the best steakout in all of america. so i know it's actually cooked. - it's actually pretty good. - you wish you had
flamethrower made steak. hey, chris. - yeah, what's up, man? - dude, you been near the flame so much, your shirt started dripping. - no way, yours is dripping too. dang. or is it just really sick merch? - that they can buy at shopmrbeast.com. don't even turn on the flamethrower, i'll flame it myself.
- all right. - this is the hottest fire in the game, boy. 'cause i can't wait for my
logan paul ice sculpture. i hired the best artist in
all of the lands to make it. he should be here soon.
- he's from the merrylands. that's how happy his
lands are, they're merry. - yeah, he actually flew
really far away to make it. and this is gonna be a dope ice sculpture. - he also has made ice sculptures for presidential elections, rap groups, cone-headed people. - even did one for kanye west, i think. - who you calling a pinhead? - hey viewers, this is logan paul with his bowl haircut. hey, logan paul. nice you finally collabed with me. he's got the maverick logo. guys, i've been keeping this
a secret for quite a while. logan paul's been wanting
to collab with me, you know. he hears me talking about how
i'm a maverick all the time. how i'm a little gangster. it's nice for you to join us, logan paul. - are you good bro? - logan, i get it you're nervous. there's no need to sweat, man. calm down. dude, i know you got
the merch on and stuff. you're hot. you're good, man. you're good. is there anything you wanna
say before we torch you, logan? - loganpaul.com/- - oh, you wanna plug your merch? no, i wanna plug my merch. did you bring kong? how's your brother doing? pretty good? that's cool. what's going on man? you're so talkative
when the camera was off. why are you giving me the cold shoulder? fine. well, just flamethrow you. you need to chill out. wow, logan. you're pretty tough. i'm actually kind of
excited for this ksi fight. i ordered my maverick merch and it hasn't come in yet. oh, logan's a strong boy. go ahead. no, logan. [music] who can say where the road goes [music] keep your logang over there. - your logang. - no, get your logang outta here. - hey, you destroyed my idol. - well, we got another one for you. so you need a little ice
for your glass there? - yeah, i could use some ice. here you go viewers. here's your logan paul elbow drink. sorry cameraman, i'm
gonna have to take this. we're gonna dab a little marshmallow. here's a little cocktail. - that was my marshmallow. - smells like gas. - yeah, gas and logan paul's elbow, ew. sorry. you want your marshmallow back? - no, i don't. - take it.
- i don't- - i don't want it. you want it, bubba? just kidding, bubba.
it's not good for you. you can't have logan paul's elbow. if one logan paul ice
sculpture wasn't enough, we have a second one. this time, he's a little shorter. it's okay, we understand. what better way to tell
you guys about my new merch than in front of an ice
sculpture of logan paul. and before i talk about my merch, i just wanna be straightforward, like my videos are extremely expensive and there was a point where like month, after month, after month, i either went negative or
like just what i made off, my videos just paid for themselves. it doesn't matter because now, you know, i make pretty good money, but i'm just saying, my videos are pretty expensive and i'd like to buy a house and move out from my mom's house. you know, i'm 19, and
i still live with her. there's a lot of things i'd like to do, and i'd like to be able
to do crazier things, and so selling merch
like this would fund it. and also i'm gonna do my
best when i do plug my merch to make sure it's entertaining and funny. and anytime it's like, kinda boring, i'm always gonna do my best
to save it towards the end. my number one priority
is entertaining you guys, being super original, really creative, and just a complete idiot, because i know that's something that's really lacking on youtube
and that's kinda my goal. so for those of you interested, shopmrbeast.com is the
name of my merch store. it just launched today, may 1st. the first shirt we're selling to help raise awareness for dry skin is the i moisturize shirt. chris obviously moisturizes,
but do you guys? buy this shirt and wear it, just to help people realize
like, dry skin is not okay. you gotta moisturize guys,
help raise awareness. and the other item we're
selling is this hoodie. it says, mrbeast on the
side, we've got this. i just think it looks good. i really didn't want
merch that was like corny. like this is actually
something i'd wear out. it just looks cool. even if you don't know what my channel is, you would just see this and be like, "wow, that looks pretty cool. you know, it doesn't look stupid." so i thought i'd try something new with this whole merch selling thing. basically on our website,
whenever you buy stuff, you get beast points. and those beast points can be
converted to raffle tickets. and our first giveaway is $10,000. on may 7th, i'm gonna pick a random person with a raffle ticket and give them $10,000 and let them be in one of my videos. as you guys know, i like to
give away all these videos as you see on this screen. these are all videos
where i gave away money. and now i want a chance for
you guys to win some money. so all you have to do is head to shopmrbeast.com before may 7th, buy some merch and
you'll get beast points, convert those beast
points into raffle tickets and you can get a chance to win $10,000 and be the outro of one of my videos. hopefully we make more
than $10,000 off of it, which then will allow me to
give more money to people, buy more ice sculptures, build more flamethrowers, just do dumber things. i think it'll be a lot of fun. so yeah, shopmrbeast.com, buy some merch, you'll get beast points,
convert it to raffle ticket, you can win $10,000 and do
an outro on one of my videos just like that quidd guy did on the zorball video, should be a lot of fun. and i can't wait to meet
whichever one of you guys win. i tweeted out a picture of
me picking logan paul's nose, as you can see, just clearing out, you
know, the mucus and stuff. logan paul, as you can see right there, liked the tweet. so see that? logan paul liked it. liked by logan paul. logan, if you ever need
someone to pick your nose, man, i got you. i accidentally knocked logan over. - let's light this thing. - rest in peace, logan paul. wait a minute, chris. we can just microwave stuff? we don't actually need a flamethrower? - apparently you can just
make popcorn in the microwave. - well, since when have
microwave's been a thing? - you're famous, queenie,
do something funny. - i thought all microwaves could do is microwave other microwaves, microwaving a microwave,
microwaving a toaster. - no, they can also break windshields. - when were you guys gonna tell me microwaves were for food and
not for just viral videos? - we figured we'd let you
figure it out on your own. - so why'd we get this flamethrower? - views? - true.