- [austin] hey guys, this is austin. today i'm running solo for
one very simple reason: i want to do a little bit of a project. so this, this is an ebay laptop that i purchased recently which, in theory, is actually a pretty good deal. so what i got this for is
a little under 200 dollars and it is an hp elitebook. now not that long ago, this
was a 1,000 dollar plus laptop, but it came with a few issues. i don't believe it has windows installed. so i figured what better to do on a boring thursday morning than try to revive this laptop and
see if i can actually get a solid system for
only about 200 bucks. what's kind of funny about this is that i haven't done a video like this, or specifically a project
like this, in a long time. so especially back in those early days when i was just starting on youtube, i didn't really have a lot
of money to work on projects, so when i did it was
always like a big deal. i remember 2012, 2013, i spent a lot of time
building the ultimate ibook g- was it g3 or g4? i think it was g3. and something like that
was really fun for me. it was just like a cool idea to take an old piece of technology
that i could actually afford and do something beyond just kind of like a standard review, right? i mean i was spending
100, 200 bucks on it. i wanted to load up an ssd and
all this kind of other stuff. yeah, it was a different kind of time. this, this is kind of
bringing me back right now. so i think i just have the laptop here. there's no power adapter
and i know at the very least there's no copy of windows installed. supposedly. so maybe not in the
greatest shape, although, it actually does seem like it's aluminum. and it's got this kind of soft touch rubber back on the bottom. probably needs a bit of a clean. that's kind of dirty. but the idea here is that this is a reasonably modern business laptop. i need to check, it has a core m inside. i believe it's skylake. keyboard seems fine, the trackpad's a little bit on the small side. i think the first thing i need to do is to see if i can find
a power adapter actually. so it does has usb 3,
as well as we have hdmi. the build seems decent. so i found an hp charger
that i've used in the past. i think this should be
the same barrel plug. plug it in. (cheers) we have life! excellent! so we've got the hp boot logo. yeah, i do want to see the starter menu. anytime you have a used laptop, usually you're getting a lot
of, sort of, grime and stuff. especially if you're buying it directly from another person. oh yeah, there actually are a fair few scratches on the outside. but it does seem like it's made out of aluminum, which is nice. something kind of exciting about getting a new piece of hardware and really not having
any idea of, kind of, what's going to work,
what's going to be broken. and seems all is pretty solid so far. i do actually really like
this soft touch material. it feels nice. it's got a little bit of wear on it, but honestly it's not that bad. so depending on what i find inside here, i actually might want to do some upgrades. i mean i was assuming that i was gonna have to spend some money on this just to get it up and running. if it's something as simple as just installing windows, that's great, but if i've got like an old
hard drive or something in here, i probably at least want to put an ssd in. so this is not a sponsored
video in any way, but i actually legitimately do recommend these ifixit kits. if you're ever into
tech, having stuff like a full set of screws, even
the weird obscure ones, having some of the
picks, the guitar picks, all the stuff that kind of helps you get into stuff, just makes it so easy. i mean i don't really
have to think about it. it's a sandisk x300 256gb m2 drive. we also have a... i can't tell what wireless card that is, but it looks to be relatively modern. it is frame less design because
it is a core m processor. and it's actually, i mean it's pretty much all battery inside here. i mean that's actually pretty impressive. looks like the only
slight issue i might have is that it does not have
user-accessible memory, so i can't upgrade the ram. but as long as it does
have 8gb, which i assume, considering how modern the
rest of the system is, it will. we should be just fine. so when it comes to installing windows, there's actually a really simple tool that microsoft provides
that will allow you to make your own usb flash drive with a completely fresh and
up-to-date copy of windows 10. now i used to use one of the flash drives that i had purchased from like amazon or newegg or
something, and that worked, but the problem was that once you actually get the actual windows installed, it would then have to go and
do like a year of updates, which could take a long time, especially on lower-end hardware. so when you use that microsoft tool and grab a little flash drive like this, which i like because it
has usb-a as well as usb-c, i know that i always have a fresh and up-to-date copy of windows that i can throw on any
computer than i'd like. okay, well that's a good sign, i guess. it should be booting from
that usb drive right now. i don't want to get too
far ahead of myself, but if the real issue here
was just purely the fact that windows had been nuked on this and no one knew how
to, like, deal with it, i mean, that's awesome. and now, it's going to install windows. so with any luck, we will
have a fully-working, 200 dollar, 190 dollar
system after windows is done. i'm always just nervous when things seem to be going well, because
this is completely untested. like it could just totally
crash and burn on me. but so far, it seems like i
got a very nice, clean system, no real issues, and windows
seems to be installing fine. which, if that was really the
only problem, then lucky me. i got a system that's not
a flaming-pile of garbage. so with a fresh copy of windows installed, what are we actually working with here? so inside we have, it is a, yeah looks like broadwell, so it's a core m, 5y51, as well as we do have
8gb of ram, 256gb ssd, and we have, okay well it's
dual band n wireless, but at least we do have 5g. 190 bucks, what do you think? - [ken] i mean, this... well, first of all, for 190 bucks you're not gonna get a screen
that's better than this. - [austin] yeah! - i think that that's pretty
much my first impression. this trackpad i'm hoping
is, oh wow, that... scroll. - [austin] drivers are not installed yet.
- okay. - [austin] it's literally a fresh copy, like a bunch of stuff is not working yet. compared to all the 200-ish dollar laptops i take a look at, this is pretty solid. - i mean, this probably already has a better ssd and more ram --
- [austin] absolutely. - than anything you'll get 190 dollars. - so one of the main issues here was that i got this
without it being tested and without having windows installed, so it very easily could
have been a total disaster. - [ken] mileage may vary. - [austin] mileage always
varies with used stuff. - with used stuff that might
also be vaguely broken, right? - [austin] everything
seems to work so far. it's even in pretty good shape. - i see why you're using the mouse, i didn't even realize the mouse was here, i should've just -- - [austin] at first the
trackpad was not working, and so i had to have the mouse and try to get it up and running.
- oh, gotcha. i don't know, if hp was selling this for a couple 100 bucks, maybe closer to 1,000 if i had to guess-- - [austin] i think it was,
i can't see the exact sku, but i believe this was about 1,100 dollars when it was brand new. - why would they include a
trackpad that does not click? - [austin] different time man. - if you put like plastic wrap
around this and had the box, i could've believed that
it was brand new actually. - [austin] look at the lid though, the lid has the scratches. - oh, yeah i guess. but i mean, like that seems like normal wear and tear for, what,
like a four year old laptop? well this is aluminum isn't it? - [austin] it's all aluminum, yeah. - it's great. - so for a laptop that's four years old, there's a lot that really jumps out to me. first of all, while yeah
the screen bezels are big, i mean this is essentially
a 13-inch laptop form factor that we would know today, just with that smaller 11.6 inch display. the important thing is
it's a high-quality panel and it is a full 1080p resolution, which looks really nice and sharp. i mean it's easy to forget that this was a business laptop and back in the day, this was something that you would expect to spend a lot of money on, so it makes sense that
is has a solid screen. so the next step is to
test the performance. so with the core m processor,
i'm not expecting a lot, but we do have still a
dual-core 5th gen processor, so it's not wildly out of date. i don't know, i feel like it'll stack up pretty well alongside a lot of the two to 250 dollar laptops that you can typically get at this price point. so after getting drivers installed, there are a few things
that jump out to me. first of all, the touch pad is better now. it's still not very
good, and it definitely makes me wish that we still
had windows precision drivers from much more modern laptops, cause this just feels old,
but it is somewhat usable. also something i didn't realize, this has a fingerprint sensor. now it's not quite the
same as what we have today. so it's opposed to a standard capacitive one where you just put your finger on it. instead, you run your finger down it, but, i mean, hey that's actually a really cool feature to
have on 190 dollar laptop. last, and definitely
probably the most important, we can actually easily
play this is episodes, because we have the power for it. the general system performance isn't bad. so importantly, we do
have pretty quick ssd. certainly not anything blazing
fast by today's standards, but way way better than
any kind of hard drive of basic emmc flash that you'd
find on most budget laptops. now as far as that core m5, or core m5y, whatever the thing is, the cpu is not quick. it's definitely again faster than what you're getting at the
budget end of things, but it's probably the spot where this sort of does fall down a little bit. but because you have the 8gb of ram, you have the reasonable cpu, and it's backed up with a pretty decently quick ssd, it is usable. now, is this going to be
the new main system for me? probably not. but, considering what we were
able to get for the price, considering how little work we actually had to do to get this
thing up and running, i am super super happy. you're always taking a risk when it comes to buying something that's used, dealing with any kind of
somewhat sketchy hardware, and you can totally lose out, right, if you get something that
looks amazing on paper and ends up being a giant
flaming-pile of garbage because it has something blown or whatever, you're gonna have major issues. this, this is cool. and i'm really really
happy i did this project. it really kind of brings me back to the old, old days
of before ken was here.