so here's three of only three of the platonic solids, the things you can make out of equilateral triangles.  so here i've got tetrahedron, four triangles, octahedron, eight triangles, and the icosahedron, 20 triangles, what's changing as you go from here to here to here is how many triangles there are around each corner or on each vertex so the tetrahedron right has three triangles around the corner and the octahedron has four and the icosahedron has five, what comes next well, six triangles around a vertex do you get a platonic solid that has six triangles around a vertex? no no no what do you get? alright so here's six, here's you know there's one triangle, two, three, four, five, six, so six triangles around vertex that tiles the plane right it goes on forever so it doesn't have any curve to it so here's a way to think about it so your triangle has 60 degrees at this corner and so like 60 plus 60 plus 60 those the three around here that adds up'0 which is well less than 360 so it's sort of curves and makes a cone shape you do this with the octahedron you get 60 60 60 60 which is what 240? still less than 30 60 with five of them you got 300 when you get 6 it adds up to 360 but there's no there's no lack of space there's no there's nothing missing so it doesn't make a comment just makes it flat 3 4 5 6 what happens if you put even if you try and put seven triangles on each vertex? actually you know what would be good to try drawing it.  i'm not going to be able to make them all the equalateral but let's see how far we can get. so i got to fit seven, so there's going to be one here and then i got to fit three in here, so i got to do this and all right so i fit seven around a vertex so let's keep going so i got to here already so maybe i'll do that that's five six seven. 3 i gotta fit for and here you can go for quite a while actually before you start running into trouble 1234 you can speed this up right? okay, one two three four, i got to fit three in here you see it starts getting difficult there's too many of them they don't really fit very nicely and you start... now i'm in real trouble look at this one two three four i gotta fit three in here 1234 in here so you can sort of see that this is... well try it at home, how far can you get drawing triangles seven triangles on each vertex.  what if i don't do it on paper what if i do it with 3d printed stuff then you get this thing so right well you can see there 1234567 triangles on each vertex you know the first thing you try and do you try and lay it flat and it doesn't work. you can make bits of it be kind of flat and there's some given the hinges which sort of helps out but then it bunches up somewhere else.  there's just no way to make it flat everywhere it doesn't work.  right what's going on right? these are sort of like they're closed around this or like spheres right? three four and five six is the flat plane.  sphere, plane what is this thing trying to be it doesn't look like it's some nice surface is just some horrible thing we don't want seven years maybe it will be better no it is not better right so this is a eight equilateral triangles around each vertex.  i mean you can count them to like it is horribly crinkly a sort of like it's like call was like lettuce.  so these are positively curved things which like a hill or bowl sort of curves towards you in all directions, whereas like something that's flat it's not it's  coming at all or it can curve in one direction but then the other direction is is flat right doesn't does that make sense? like its curved this way but it has to be flat this where you can curve in both directions so one of the directions plants really just flat and these are like it wants to be like a saddle. if you imagine my hand is a horse right and like the hand is like awesome like your legs go either side of here so so right so what does that mean like sometimes it's coming towards you, and sometimes it's curving away from you, so when you've got both of those that's negative coach or negative gassing curvature so what are these things these are sort of like so these are models of hyperbolic space in a way they're sort of too much of it.  it doesn't want to fit in ordinary euclidean space and kind of wrinkles up and gets out of control so these these ones here right you you run out of triangles, right.  once you're done with your 20 triangles on the icons evening you're done this one i could have kept going forever right is it's like i could just keep trying this out words and it was just you know for the table and go off around the world this one well so again i've only done like a little bit of its it seems clear that i could keep going i mean i tried doing it over here with the pen but it was sort of you know it's difficult but it seems like you know if you allowed to sort of wrinkle them up out of the plane and like make this sort of wrinkly thing that i could just keep going well you kind of might run into trouble there's actually an open question nobody knows the answer if you keep adding these things how far can you go out into space without it crashing into itself i mean for this physical thing there's a definite limit and and here's here's the argument right so as you sort of go out from like the central ring to the next ring to the next ring like the amount of space you've got to play with his only going up like that the cube of that distance because you're making it a sphere of possible places you could put triangles but the number of triangles that you need actually goes up exponentially so exponential vs cube you lose right you if you go like a few layers out you'll just get incredible numbers of triangles in a solid wall because these are made of plastic the house thickness each one of the house volume and then you just run out but the problem that's open is like suppose there two-dimensional triangles, like connected at the hinges perfectly, how far can you go? is there actually limit? because like two dimensional triangles you could stack like tons of the next to each other and maybe you'd somehow be able to fit them in without crashing into each other we don't think so but there's no proof like nobody knows what's the worst that the father so you can go i mean it's sort of like really quickly and nasty and not really smooth and in the same in same sort of way like the icosahedron is not that smooth it's got these sort of corners so what you can do to an icosahedron to make it smoother is like make a geodesic dome so here's one way to do it right you take each triangle and you subdivide it into for you know like a triforce cut it into four you got these extra vertices on in the middle of the edges and you come out of the sphere and that makes a smoother polyhedron it's no longer regular but you know it's a smooth the thing that's more like it so i was like all right let's do that with this this it's got this crinkly thing that's to like here like the angles add up to 360 plus 60 is 420 too many there's like a lot of angle at each vertex, so if you do this sort of like geodesic dome thing with this thing then it turns into this thing,  so this is like it's all hard to see but so i'm going to see this right so these four triangles the the three on the outside or slightly isosceles and the one in the middle is actually equal at all so this is subdivided and then and then the vertices to the activities just squished around a little bit to make it make it a bit smoother and then it's it's nice to write it sort of you can get quite large bits of it to be flat although you can get all of it to be flat always sort of bunches up somewhere no matter how hard you try. yeah it's a hyperbolic doily that's what is really likes to be in sort of like saddles or crinkly start for ya fun to play with the short side so long sides n the short side is n minus 1 so each rectangle is n times n minus 1 this three of them so it's three lots of that and then there's one in the middle well right so that's a really hard question okay all right here we go