if i don't have headphones on i'm not working and if i'm going to wear headphones all day i want the best headphones in the world and those are the hi-fi man [hd6] so what's good about these is first of all well first of all they're open they're open backed so if you play music the entire world will hear a tinny version of your music pretty loudly so if you are if you're working in an office with other people you can't wear open headphones please don't please don't be that person and that includes everything from great. oh, sorry great [oh] people, but if you're working in an office alone, you can do open and boy the sound quality is amazing [what] do you listen to i'm sorry [i] listen to fish mostly fish lots of fish i have 34 days worth of fish this is most of their albums and every live show they've played since 2009 what i like about them is that they are pretty consistent the music just i like the music to begin with and they [release] every every concert they do and they tour a lot every concert they do they release it on their website, and you can buy it for like 10 bucks so that's where all this came from and so [it's] like getting a [new] album from the band you like like 10 times a year or more it's it's great [so] they so then i can [well] i'm working i can put one of these shows on. i don't i don't do shuffle i just play straight through i can put one of these shows on and then i don't have to think about my [music] for the next 36 days. tell me about your keyboard. this is the microsoft sculpt ergonomic desktop keyboard microsoft yeah, the microsoft makes the best organ on keyboards they have for years if not ever they really you know if you want the kind of split design basically in my first few [years] of working sorry, but the dirtiness [i'd] in my first few years of working professionally as a programmer my sarah develops wrist soreness and i was afraid of rsi issues and so i made a couple of minor changes biggest one was i switched to a split keyboard and i haven't that was 10 years ago, and i haven't [have] any problem since just normal yeah. yeah, it rest oh, no, you can't. i mean that's kind of [subtle] my elbow on this sometimes. that's why it's all crunched up i'll often sit like this. i can if i'm thinking about a problem or if i'm browsing something online. it's nice and comfortable there it's kind of spongy bullet-time. yeah, it's like a little like you know it's it's you know. it's a fake leather pad you know it's fine, and you mouse there you got normal normal mouse. yeah the apple magic mouse nothing special i like the inertial scrolling on it. yeah, and a piece of gold or something there. that's [it's] on yeah, it's this crappy teflon pad that just it makes it glide really easily as a dolt. it's just a sheet of teflon so it's yeah i don't know it's i order from some crazy internet supplier for like 10 bucks at some point in the past look pops is up high hubs temporarily oh hey goes good boy. so you what evil computer you running here. this is the 5k imac from last year, it's the [one-year] old model, and i love it. it's the best computer. i've ever owned by far absolutely love it. it's fast the screen is gorgeous. it's huge everything. i want i'm editing podcasts i'll have like adobe audition running or logic than what i'm doing probably logic actually and then most of the time if i'm doing overcast work, then i'll have xcode running and then this is the ios simulator running here, and so when you're making ios apps apple gives you this little simulated window here, so you can actually run the whole app right here in a window and it's it's just like just like having a little iphone on your computer, so it's great so over here is all the source code, and there's this giant list of all the all the files this isn't even all of them it's overcast as a lot of files and a lot of lines of code [because] this is one file over here you can see how long it is and this is granted a pretty important one a pretty big one but what does that want to do? this is the main streaming player? this is how the streaming player works of like you know getting the data from the source and putting it through the decoder and decoding mp3s into sound decoding you know m4a etc and then being able to stream it without having the whole file downloaded so that's all that's this is part of that this isn't even all that is part of that they're really there any two things you need to make a cool app. you just need those two things that's it really basically i mean you can you can go into you know? graphical programs to make the assets for it to make the icons and so it's stuff like that but most of the work is right here it's xcode [and] a simulator that's most of the work and there was things like service and let's sort of stuff what do you need for that? it depends. i [mean] you need like a terminal window basically you need like terminals - i always have terminals running you know terminals running here and you know monitoring your stuff, but most apps don't even need servers anymore. [you] know for the most part people don't really use most apps except for like you know big web services those will use servers of course but i don't think a lot of people use servers anymore. this is basically audio stuff so this is a headphone amp. this is it's by a company called shit yes, and on there it's well. this is their logo it's sch iit. okay, right, but it is pronounced shit so this is my shit headphone amp and this is the dac i'm still not entirely sure i believe in audiophile [dax], but i got one anyway just in case and then over on this side. i have my podcasting setup. so i have my podcasting microphone the [noi] [minh] [kms]. 105 a shit word yes, use the usb filter. i have [a] whining dog and this is my my microphone interface the usb pre - on top of a mac mini home server and a blu-ray reader for some reason i bought the blu-ray reader thinking about be ripping all my movies and [converted] them so i could watch them you know on an ass and watch on [my] apple tv and in practice i have not done [that] because it's a pain in the butt. i am not a hard worker. i do a lot but i [don't] have i don't have a lot of consistency in my hours [i] don't have a ton of discipline like when when or where i do things i just kind of do things whenever i can and whenever i'm up to it and i have to kind of tackle problems with that in mind so like i won't tackle a problem that requires constant input from me or you know tons of dedicated scheduling or tons of other people [to] be involved i don't hire other people i don't have any employees because i would be a terrible manager of other employees and i would probably do less work than them and that would be weird [i] generally just do what i can with my one slacker self are you a good model in should people think that's the way to do or you [you're] terrible role model all i've done i mean i did terribly in school and everything like all i've done is found a way that i can take my slacker self and earn a living [i] have no idea it will work for other people and that's on a screen called nitpicky details every time i do things like this [i] think it's a risk and i think maybe it'll turn off some people and every time i work but no one really notices my job. i look back on it kind of the way. i look back on college. it's like it's something