- walmart now sells discount macbooks. so for the first time ever, they're selling brand new
macbooks directly on walmart.com. now, in the past they've
had the restored macbooks, but as we've determined, those are always not
necessarily the greatest move. however, they love to advertise the macbook air for only $699. so this is the original m1 macbook air. but up until very recently, this was selling on the
apple site for $1,000 and yet walmart are selling
these things for 699. so is a $699 macbook from
walmart actually worth it? well, there's only one way to find out. wow, that's some fast shipping. all right, let's see what we get. that is a macbook my friends, and that looks very much brand new. we've got ourselves, i chose the space gray macbook air. now this is the base
configuration as you would expect for $300 less than it was a few weeks ago. so this is the 13-inch m1
air with eight gigs of ram and 256 gigs of storage. and this is the older style ssd, which is actually faster
than the m2 macbook air because this uses two
chips instead of one. so my thought here is that this is actually still going
to be a very usable system. oh, that was very pleasant. and there we go. a brand new macbook air. also have the dinky little charger. it's only like what, 30 watts, which seems just absurdly slow. all right, let's fire it up. is it, is it dead? this macbook with probably
sitting around for so long that the battery died. (austin laughing) there we go. just need a little bit of encouragement. so if you're unfamiliar, this is the m1 macbook air, which has the older school design. so it's still the wedge, which i actually know a lot of people are a fan of the wedge design. i do personally prefer the m2 and the m3 from a design standpoint because you actually get magsafe in addition to the dual thunderbolt ports. and that extra port is really nice because if you're charging this device, you only have one extra port. it's usable but it's nice
to have a little bit extra. but other than that though, it's actually not gonna
be a huge difference. so we do have touch id,
we have the keyboard, we have the very nice
force touch track pad and the display, while
a little bit smaller than the current macbook airs, it's only like in half an
inch difference or something. it's quite minimal. for the next few days, i'm going to live with this
macbook air as my main machine to tell you exactly is a $699 macbook air actually worth it. (upbeat music) so i've just finished setting
up in the macbook air. it's only been a few hours but i do have some initial thoughts. this thing still feels very modern. now that shouldn't be a surprise, i mean it's only a few years old, but like i think there's this tendency to expect that a three,
four, five year old system should feel old and ancient and that's the way that things used to be. but i'll tell you the
difference between this macbook, which came out in 2020, and the brand new 2024 m3 macbook air is really pretty minimal. i mean, yes, that m3 is
a little bit snappier but like we don't see the kind
of huge leaps that we used to when you would go from like a sixth to like ninth gen intel processor or something like that. like, just the speed and the snappiness feels very, very solid. but at 699, i don't really care that i've only got eight gigs of ram. i know that that is going to be fine. are you gonna run into
the occasional bottleneck if you're doing a heavier task? yes, but a lot less so
than you would think. i did a video on the
brand new m3 macbook pro that came out in 2023
and that system at $1,600 still ships with eight gigs of ram. that's egregious. but, even though i don't
wanna give them a free pass, it's still a very usable system and it is doubly so when you're spending
less than half of that. day two with the macbook and things have been going pretty well. so the first thing that's jumped out to me is the battery life. it is so refreshing. i have not actually, daily
macbook air in a while, and especially with apple silicon, i've like last night, i spent like three
hours doing like emails, streaming music, that kinda stuff, and i only burned like 25% of the battery. like it's so nice to not have
to worry about the charger. now i have finally just plugged it in about 24 hours after i unboxed it and it's just been a battery champ. on top of that, i have
been editing with this. so this timeline is pretty
indicative of what i normally do, which it's a 34 second 4k youtube short and it's holding up pretty well. now, i will say that you will notice a little bit of a lack of performance if you're coming from a higher end system, but not at $700, right? so like i'm throwing in all the effects. color correction, again, it's 4k. and while yes, i have to render
a couple of smaller things, especially some of the more
like demanding effects, it's not that much worse
than my normal setup and it's very workable. i'm sitting here watching marques' video on the m3 macbook air when he mentioned something
i wasn't aware of. best buy now selling this laptop for $649, undercutting walmart by a full 50 bucks. i liked this laptop at
$700 but for 650 bucks, i mean like has there ever been a brand new macbook that
is not wildly out of date that was available for less than $700. if there was, let me know the comments but i cannot think of a single one. so at this point, i've spent the entire week with the macbook and i have a lot of thoughts. now, when you look at this
as a thousand dollar laptop, there are some trade offs, but those trade offs are very
different at 650 or $700. so take something simple like the inputs, the keyboard and track pad
are pretty much identical to the much more expensive macbooks. and while the keyboard is pretty good, the track pad remains to be the absolute best in the business. touch id is nice and the
screen is quite solid considering the price point. so no, it's not going to
be 120 hertz in promotion, but it is still very, very solid. it's high resolution, it's
gonna look a lot better than most other laptop
displays at this price point. now the speakers are a
little bit of a low point, i'll be honest. they're fine. but especially if you compare it to something like a macbook pro, it is a huge difference. i mean, those things sound phenomenal. the macbook sounds average. so my use case is not
incredibly demanding. the things that i've done
with the macbook this week include editing a little bit. so you know, again, some shorts, nothing that's super huge and demanding but doing some editing on it, i've actually done some gaming, so i just recently spent some
time playing starcraft ii. so obviously this is a game
that is very old, right? we're talking about
something that came out probably a decade ago, if not longer. now what i'm actually seeing
for performance is not perfect. so it's definitely, i'm lagging just a little bit here, but i am running on high settings and it's on a fanless macbook. so look, no one should buy
a macbook for gaming, right? it's just, it's not a good
move ever for any reason. but what is nice, is to be
able to play a little game every once in a while. and that's the way that i, honestly, that's the way i game, period. but the thing is, when we're
talking about a $650 computer, gaming is something that
you will probably wanna do from time to time. and while there's a fairly
limited selection of games that are available on mac, they do exist. you know, it's funny, gaming on mac is in a
really weird spot, in 2024 because most games of course
have never run on mac. but the thing is, there actually are some
signs of life here. there are a number of
games that are coming out. you know, some of the aaa games that are on the mac app store
show up every once in a while. in fact, actually subscribe to the channel and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling button, i'm actually working on a gaming
on mac video very shortly. so there's a lot to talk about here. but the nice thing is that
even though the m1 air is the absolute lowest end configuration that could possibly run apple silicon, as we found out last year
when i tried to game on a mac, the macbook air base model
is still pretty decent. obviously not a gaming computer. so with the m1 and the m3 macbook airs, they use dual nand ssds, which are much, much faster
than the single nand ssd in the m2 macbook air,
which means that ironically, the cheapest macbook air actually has tied for the
fastest ssd of all of them. that isn't a huge problem
unless you're again, doing some crazy over the top workloads. what is a bigger problem is just the fact that 256
gigs of storage is not a lot. it's fine if you use your computer like a glorified chromebook. and i say that with no shade, i use my computer, it's kinda like a glorified chromebook. i mean, yes, i do some video
editing, i do some things, but when i'm doing that, i'm usually working off
like an external drive and i can actually live
inside the 256 gigs of storage fairly easy for my workflow. i mean, i do like having a larger drive but it's not incredibly important. and it depends on your workflow, right? because the problem with this macbook is that first of all, while
they're here, they're here, and as soon as they're sold
out, these are gone right? they're not gonna restock
them as far as they know. so look at this macbook air. i think first of all, it compares really favorably compared to the last time
when i looked at this, when it came out in 2020. at the time apple silicon was brand new. and while there's a ton of potential, most apps really weren't optimized. but at this point, pretty
much everything is right. and the few apps that are, and specifically games
that are not optimized still run very well under rosetta. so performance is a giant thumbs up. is it a slight bit slower
than an m2 or an m3 macbook? yes, yes it is. are you going to notice unless
you put them side by side, you absolutely will not. while you might scoff that i'm
talking about a base model, 3-year-old macbook air
that doesn't have a fan, and eight gigs of ram, and like, yeah, that might not be the system for you but for an enormous amount
of people out there, this is not only the best macbook, i think it is hard to argue this is not the best value
macbook that has ever existed. but on top of that, it's good
for just most people, period. this just sort of makes me sort of wish that apple could find a
way of actually selling, even if they just kept
the m1 macbook around and gave it a price cut. like even if they had to sell these things for like $800 msrp or whatever, like this is such a phenomenal system, but i understand why they can't do that because if this exists at
650 or 700 or even $800, there's no reason to
buy the $1,000 macbook. there's no reason to
buy the $1,100 macbook. there's no reason to almost
buy the $1,600 m3 macbook pro, like you have to go to
the high-end pro machines to have any significant difference in the experience that you
have with these devices. so the problem with the m1
macbook air is a nefarious one. it's too good to live and that is a dangerous place to be.