we are now stranded on
a raft in the middle of the ocean and there goes our boat. we are now stranded for seven days. - how much longer?
- seven days. frick. this raft is literally countless
miles from the nearest civilization. and whether we like it or not, my four friends and i
are stuck on this raft. and it's not going to be easy.
this is brutal. it won't stop raining!
we're all at rock bottom now. this challenge went from fun
to a literal nightmare. very fast. bro, look how far away the boat is. i can't even see it anymore. so, step one. we're going to get sunburned
if we don't get shade. and i had survival specialists equip this raft with tons of wood,
rope and everything else. we would need to build ourselves
a shelter. boys, we need to get started.
we are running out of light! i got this. my finger! now, we set these up like a teepee. we picked the worst day to start. as you can tell by the clouds, it's
literally about the storm. so, first thing we want to do
is set up some structure to cover us. also, since we're on this slab of wood
for the next seven days, we need a place to hide
from the sun so we don't get sunburned. so two birds, one stone. speaking of birds,
while we were building, - this happened.
- a bird! - it's coming right at us!
- oh, my god! it's a bird! yes! this is crazy. - we should name him.
- what's his name? bryan. bryan. bryan. bryan. what if you went and got some fish? i know, he's looking at me.
he understands. - jimmy, just say the word.
- put the knife away. - okay. i'll put the knife away.
- and the hatchet. bryan, that was a joke. forget the bird.
we got to build a shelter. - we're making friends.
- while bryan watched, we worked on our first shelter
for the rest of the day. except for my friend tareq, who spent the entire day
getting cool drone shots. and i'm not even mad about it. inside this crate is the food for all five of us for the next seven days. oh, my god. and in these two barrels is our entire water supply
for all five of us. how does it taste? very hot. we're screwed. there was dirt in my cup. it's getting dark, and that crate
has the word "sleep" on it. hopefully, the survival guides
gave us something soft. - why are they wet?
- things do get wet on a boat. i'm ready for bed.
i wanna go to sleep. this is night one,
and bryan is just yawning. this is miserable. this is all the coverage we have. i didn't realize what i was
signing up for. it's hot. this thing will not stop swaying,
and i feel like i'm going to puke. and i'm surrounded by a bunch
of sweaty people aye, sweaty men. if you guys
smell this bad on day one, what are you going
to smell like on day 7? oh, gosh. our first night of sleep
was really rough. sleeping is impossible. these waves are just making me
miserable. and to make matters worse,
our best friend bryan ended up leaving us that morning. -bryan!
-bryan! bryan! but regardless, today's
objective is to build ourselves a permanent weatherproof shelter. how do we turn that
into a livable structure? there's definitely something here. luckily, i had them throw
a bunch of wood on the raft so we could build a nice house. how we build the house? i'm not quite sure, but they said
this is enough to build a house. but ironically,
right as we got started, - it's raining!
- don't throw it! jimmy, get my shark pillow! this is miserable! this is bad. oh, jesus christ. you're not doing
the right thing, nolan. - listen with your ears!
- why do you yell so much! - because you don't listen!
- i wanna hit nolan! - it's just rain.
- shut up! at least we don't have to shower. yeah. this is so bad. and we still have over
six days left. where do we go poop? - oh, we have to build the pooper.
- what? -we have to build everything
that's here. we have to build the toilet. build our shelter,
the fire, everything. the moment the rain finished, the boys and i needed to build
all of our survival essentials. starting with the shelter. tearing it down in the name
of something better. five minute break for chris. i also need a break. i'm seasick. i'm out of it. you got to pick this up. i can't. i can't pick it up anymore. i feel like
you're doing all the work, but we got two other goofs
just laying down. i'm miserable. we built one wall. - yeah, we built one wall.
- all together. all of us. regardless of being seasick, it was going to take all of us
if we wanted to finish this. now, you guys
bring it forward. there we go. let's go! how many youtubers does it take
to build a little structure? wait? is that a whale? think that's a whale?
that's insane. oh, my god. - it's unreal.
- there are actually whales. this experience
just keeps getting better. shelter, water, not being near nolan. i'm never going to take that
for granted again. probably would have been really
useful to build the ladder first. we got a ladder. i literally
just built just 4 minutes ago. after hours of building,
we were finally getting somewhere. i severely regret
making this a seven day challenge instead of a 50 hour challenge. like all our other videos.
we keep rocking back and forth. it's freakin' miserable.
i'm going to puke. and finally, just as
the sun was going down... - camp is now organized.
- yeah! night two, my bed is still broken,
but i'm going to get some sleep tonight because i'm that tired. i'm gonna head to bead.
did i wake you? yeah. just go back to bed,
i'm just vlogging. i accidentally woke lazar up,
i feel bad now. this might be the most tired i've ever been in my entire life. it's now day three. and somehow our building
didn't fall over. i'll take that as a dub. the noises that the structure made while i was sleeping last night, filled me with nightmares. it's day three and we've really
started to get into a rhythm. our morning routine
consisted of peeing in the corner, - bro, who vlogs in the pee corner? i'm not moving. - eating our breakfast,
- surviving on feastables. it's all you need? and drinking hot barrel water. so dehydrated, i need this. we're about 36 hours in
and we're almost halfway - through a barrel of water.
- is that slow or fast. we're going to run out on day six. running low on water
and food gave me an idea. i'm kind of curious to see
what's under the boat people do. there's so many fish below us! so we decided to try and catch some dinner,
but we weren't very good at it. why does it take so long? i just want something
to put my stomach. bryan! bryan, help us catch fish! bryan! turns out fishing is a lot harder
than youtube. after hours,
we caught absolutely nothing. why can't we catch anything?
oh, i give up. we were tired,
dehydrated and hungry. which forced us to dig
into our rations. let's have ourselves a feast. yeah! call it a feast-ables. aye! in our supplies, we had wood to build a fire
and pans to cook with. you take big stick
and make really little sticks and then make medium sticks. then use the big sticks at the end. look at them beans, baby! i'm so excited.
this looks awesome. -these are really good.
-can you tell we've been at sea for three days? - literally.
- when have i ever been this excited over canned chili? hey, i put some love into this one. it's not just canned chili anymore. it's got tomatoes, kidney beans. you don't have to keep talking.
i'm already drooling. this was our first hot meal in days, but it was also
a good chunk of our rations, so we made sure to enjoy it. i feel a lot better. i think the first two days
were definitely the most miserable. i think we're slowly,
like losing our minds and it's actually becoming
bearable. i still haven't gone
to the bathroom. that's my biggest concern,
you know? i'm struggling to sleep. this raft is just rocking
like crazy. definitely i'm kind of miserable. hopefully tomorrow is better. none of us managed to get any sleep. we lost the back of our
fort last night. the house needs some repairs. tensions are pretty high
on the raft this morning. nolan's a little upset.
he broke his bed. oh, my god. nolan is struggling. he's just in his feels right now. it'll be okay. he probably would've
quit the channel if i did that. this is easily the worst. oh, there's thunder. i swear.
if it starts raining again... oh, i can't take that. and to make matters worse, we accidentally dropped our ladle
in the drinking water. and since we haven't showered
in four days, grabbing it technically
contaminated the drinking water. i'm never drinking out of that
again. fast forward
to when we run out of water. because of the contamination, a third of our water
was no longer safe to drink. whatever reason, the more i suffer,
the more you guys watch some of our most popular videos. are when i buried myself alive,
spent time in solitary confinement. so i hope you're happy.
i'm suffering again. it's not easy surviving on a raft,
but after four long days, lazar's finally pooping. can you play a celebratory song? lazarbeam is - pooping.
- is pooping. see how all those clouds
over there are dark? yeah. yeah. they're going to pour
down on us tonight. tonight's going to suck. we didn't know it yet, but the biggest storm of the entire
challenge was headed right towards us. and when we saw it approaching, we tried to prepare
as much as possible can't wait for another storm
just to destroy all this again. tareq's
fixing his side of the fort. chris is fixing the roof,
and i'm now the cameraman for some reason. there's a storm-a-brewing. and while they're
preparing the shelter for the storm,
i'm going to tell you about shopify because it might literally storm
until the end of the challenge. this is going to be a bit rocky. shopify is a platform
that makes it easy for anyone to start a business. they literally support
millions of small businesses all around the world,
from selling wood to nails, to crates to... crocs, they support
businesses that sell it on shopify. assuming we're going to have
absolutely zero tops covering this structure, i am worried about it. 100% of what i sell online
from merch to feastables, i do with shopify. it's actually getting pretty rocky
out here. - the wind is getting crazy!
- we're out of nails! it's really hard to work
around the wind, guys. stop yelling and do things! shopify even has a new ai tool
called sidekick, making running
your entire business easier. just like surviving on this
raft can be hard, so can entrepreneurship. and that's why
they do everything in their power to make it as easy as possible. - this is my worst nightmare.
- i'm so miserable! go to shopify.com/mrbeast to give it a try right now.
thank you, shopify. let's go prep for the storm. i'm soaking wet! maybe you can start
helping us, jimmy. i was paying for the raft! the storm was really
starting to pick up but that night,
it got so much worse. this really puts the helter
in the shelter, right? oh no, you! are you kidding me? - it's leaking!
- oh, no... this shelter is the opposite
of waterproof. this is brutal. what do we do? we have three more... the next three days, by the way. - no!
- there's water everywhere. it's useless. this does nothing. this is the most insane night yet. we are struggling right now. is this safe anymore? we could've just filmed
this in a studio. but no, we have to
be the real channel that doesn't fake things. we're gonna die! we're getting just destroyed.
i'm getting hit. there's a hole that is completely
opened up over my bed. i can't do this. - i can't do this.
- you can end this video, jimmy. jimmy, please. i tried to talk all you guys
out of it. you all said yes! this is the worst experience
i've ever had in my entire life. i hate every part of this. i'm just miserable right now. the storm was reaching a new peak
with every passing hour. we were desperate,
so we tried using our beds as literal walls
to protect us from the rain. we're all at rock bottom now. it's been raining for a few hours. it's freezing cold. we don't have beds.
i'm getting nauseous. i don't know if we're
going to make it these full seven days at this point. it rained nonstop
for around 20 hours straight. and after standing the whole night
completely soaked and exhausted, we had to push ourselves to dry off
our supplies and rebuild camp. our raft is just in shambles. look at our beds,
we're drying them off. this is harder than antarctica. this is harder than the desert video. i'm just ready to be home. i hate this raft. i never want to see it again. our entire fire pit
is completely drenched. we couldn't start a fire
if we wanted to tonight. no dinner. and to make matters worse, all of
our food was completely soaked. meaning only a portion
of it was still safe to eat. we had stability,
we had food, we had dry beds, and we took it for granted. we can't take
another night like that. we need to waterproof
the shelter. we just ripped that off to tide it here,
and then we'll leave it there. but this time we have this. last night we were shivering cold. and wanted to die. so would you rather be
warm and dry or cold and wet? put a zip tie here. nolan. tie a rope to that, zip tie there. we can use that to push us up
so we get even more room. i'm thinking, why don't i make
a really big clothesline and hang up all our wet stuff? maybe we'll have dry towels
by tomorrow. i want to die. i'm sunburned, tired, dehydrated,
and did i say tired? after fixing camp,
we were so exhausted that we spent most
of the day sleeping. but at least when we woke up, we were reunited
with a familiar friend. - bryan!
- bryan! bryan! - bryan!
- bryan! bryan, come back! after being stuck in a raft
for five days with these guys. this really is a nightmare. i'll admit it, - i missed bryan.
- he's moved on. you may not have given up on bryan,
but bryan gave up on you. bryan's given up on us. we have two days left.
we're running out of food. our water is contaminated,
and we're all borderline dying. i'm going crazy. these last two days
will be interesting. what could go wrong now? i can literally see 500
fish down there. that is crazy. oh, my gosh.
this poop bucket stinks. i almost had a mental breakdown
last night. i was shivering wet the entire time. could not sleep. it was one of the worst nights
of my life. last night,
shivering in the torrential rain in the middle of the deep,
dark ocean. you know, we got through it. now, the end of this challenge
could not come soon enough. making the challenge 7 days
was a horrible decision. this is so much harder. the new reinforced, waterproof
fortress actually worked. lannan said it rained last night, did it? at 4 a.m., sprinkled a little. hey, here's the beauty. i didn't even know. that was the best sleep
i've ever gotten. i actually got a full night's
sleep last night. i can barely even open my eyeballs. i would say this is the hardest
challenge we've ever done, adding the extra five days
on the end of a 50 hour challenge definitely makes it harder. the fact
that we're just drifting at sea on this hunk of wood,
that's pretty impressive. and while it seemed like
the rain was over, we found ourselves
encountering a new obstacle. we've gone from shivering cold
like two nights ago to being scorching hot,
unbelievably hot. i'm about to jump in the water
because i'm getting too hot. we're going to go swimming. i hope nolan can swim. and while they cooled off
in their own way, we got creative with ours. oh, yes. it's fans. cold air. i feel amazing. air! a jellyfish bit me! why does the ocean hate us? i knew it was a great idea
not to go swimming. - are you okay?
- oh, my leg! i found the sweet spot. yeah. oh, no. yeah, i got a little welts
and some red lines. for the majority of the day,
it was so hot we literally
couldn't walk on the deck. yeah, i'm hot. i don't want to be alive.
i'm hot. it's very hot. but as the sun went down,
we were optimistic about reaching the finish line. we have less than 24 hours
left in the challenge. this has genuinely been the hardest challenge video
i've ever been a part of. honestly, this whole experience
has made me appreciate all the things we take
for granted in life. like your shower, your food. i miss food. a working toilet. i never want to poop
in a bucket again. i say we celebrate making it
this far with a feastable bar. yes, available in every walmart,
target, 7-eleven, albertson's in america. it's 2023, if you're still buying hershey's,
it's kind of lame. hershey's for the boomers. - oh, jimmy,
- how did you break the chair? what is happening? jimmy, i'm starting to think
you ate all the food. i guess i'll just continue
the time-lapse with a broken chair. this is our final night
sleeping together, everybody. oh, i'm so glad to sleep alone. i'm gonna miss
sleeping by your side. 100%. i would not rather
sleep next to any other man. and with that, i'm going to bed. after an amazing night's sleep,
we were visited by a familiar face. bryan brought his family to say
goodbye to us on the last day. thank you, bryan.
that meant a lot. it's almost like we were family
to bryan. we were. he kept us safe during like,
the night we had the least shelter. maybe he's just a pea brain bird. - shut up.
- nolan. off the rack. - i wish.
- that was emotional. everything's going full circle. we had so many crazy memories
in this raft. yeah, and i think my best
memory is going to be leaving. same. we spent over 150 hours
on this floating piece of wood. and even though it was easily
the hardest thing i've ever done, the boys and i still had
some good times. - where's this boat?
- where's the boat? the boat! then finally,
the end was literally in sight. the boat, it's coming! alert the ship of our location. signaling the boat! boat! boat! boat! why is it moving so abnormally slow? - oh, my god!
- i'm getting off this raft. the first 10,000 people to go
to the shop app will get a free box of feastables. click the link in the description
to download the shop app right now.