- behind me is an assassin. and if he stabs me with this rubber knife by the end of the day, he wins a hundred grand. here's your rubber knife. good luck.
- get me outta this rope. (siren wailing) (person grunts)
(lever clicks) - what you do? (person grunts) - [chandler] i can't get out. - [mr. beast] later boys. i left you a car in the woods. (suspenseful music) - what? are you out? - this video is gonna be the craziest video you've ever seen. we have a real tank, an entire carnival, i'm blowing up a bank, and so much more all to
escape this real assassin. you wanna watch this video. - oh my god, he's just driving away. - [assassin] we gotta hurry guys. - i'm gonna stab that guy. - there's a car somewhere in the woods we have to find. - [assassin] guys, there's the car. - [karl] are you sure this one's for you? - pretty sure.
(people laughs) - [chandler] go, go, go. - and now we're arriving
at the train station. there are dozens of train cars
in this massive warehouse. it's going to take him forever to find me. inside this cars backpack
is not only a hundred grand but also a tracker giving
him my real time location. - okay, i found jimmy. he seems to be stopped at like
a warehouse just up ahead. - what's it look like
around the warehouse? - it seems like where all the trains go. - yeah.
(karl chuckles) - how did jimmy find an
assassin for this anyway? - i found jimmy, he didn't find me. (suspenseful music) - giving the assassin a car made him think this would be easy, but it's time for a reality check. (screen whooshes)
chris, are you in the tank? - yeah, where did we get a tank from? - don't worry about that. when the assassin and the
boys are in the warehouse destroy their car. - roger that. over and out. - so, i've seen the other
guys that chased jimmy. he's gonna be ready there for us. so, you can point and
laugh and call us nerds. well, that ain't gonna happen this time. all right guys, we're pulling in. and we're gonna get right
up next to the building. and then we're gonna slip in
that open door over there. - he's so intent. there's a camera. there's
a camera right there. right there. (intense music) (suspenseful music) - let's see if he's back that way. - [chandler] let's go. - chris, they're inside the
warehouse, you know what to do. - roger that. bravo six going dark.. destroy the car. (chris screaming) (tank whirring)
(graphics thump) (laughs) oh, my god. - chris, how's the flattening going? (chris screaming) - [assassin] what is going on? - [chandler] how did i not see this? - [assassin] is this a door? - [jimmy] we gotta go, we gotta go. come on.
- hey, something's definitely in there. (suspenseful music) (glass shattering) - right here is our getaway car. (glass shattering) go, go, go. - [assassin] go, go, go, go. (object clattering) (van crashing) - [jimmy] holy crap. get us outta here. - [assassin] go, go, go. - whoo! was that epic? that was insane. it's gone. we gotta get to the car. let's go. all right. oh, no. are you kidding me? - what?
- they ran over our car with a tank. - i ran over your car with a tank. - jimmy.
- what up? - our car is literally
a pancake right now. - yeah, you can uber to the next location or you can buy a new car. up to you.
(screen whooshes) - [assassin] is that our uber? hello. we're right behind him, step on it. all right guys, he's on
the highway traveling east. - oh, he's just running down that highway. he's going. where are we? - we are far.
- oh. - now we're at the hotel
where we rented every room. so, these are our room keys. (laughs) i'll even there for the
assassin, i don't need 'em. and while we're waiting for
the assassin on the 20th floor, we have over a hundred cameras monitoring every inch of the hotel. - i've seen his tracker stop here. this place is huge. probably a million rooms in it. he's not gonna get away from us again. alright, fellas. tracker's telling me he's inside. - oh, what is this?
- this doesn't look right. - we got room keys. (audio thudding)
10th floor. - is there a doofus on the line? - you're not very stealthy. since you just walkied? me, that means you're within
walkie-talkie range. which means you're now in the hotel which i didn't know you were in. - that's my bad.
- oh. - [jimmy] i'm hiding in one of
over 200 rooms in this hotel. i also put a little
something in every room. good luck.
(assassin gulps) - i knew it. (cap thuds) - i just want to get up there quick and just get on him as fast as possible. - [karl] let's do this. here we go. do you hear this? (person screaming) (lock clicking) what is not in here? - [assassin] nope, this it ain't guys. (relaxing music) (door clicks) (elegant trumpet music) he's not in here, let's go. - [jimmy] oh, they are on
the 10th floor, oh my gosh. mr. assassin, look up at that camera. - how about this one, jimmy? (shoe smacks) - we still have a hundred other cameras. (footsteps thumping) - jimmy. (footsteps thumping) coming in, jimmy. - [karl] what's up guys? (footsteps thumping) no way. (footsteps thumping)
(object thudding) - [assassin] jimmy. - [karl]'. - what floor are they on? -'.
-'. -'? oh, wait a minute. i might need to (hands rustling)
get ready. mr. assassin, here's the deal. you're running out of time and we both know you're never
gonna find me without a hint. i'll give you the exact
location to me in this hotel, if you tie up chandler
and karl in room'02. - [assassin] yeah, i'll tie these guys up. - don't talk to me until you do that. (walkie-talkie explodes)
i hope that didn't break, 'cause i need to talk to him. - [assassin] oh, my legs. - [karl] oh, man. - [jimmy] hey, karl. - yes, jimmy. - i want you to know it's not personal. - it feels pretty personal. - alright, let's go. - i'm so tired, i'm not gonna fight it. - i know we didn't help you much. (chandler coughs)
and we let jimmy get away. - i hope you get him. stab him good. - little do they know i'm literally two floors
above them right now. - yeah, it's nothing personal guys. all right, jimmy. these guys ain't going nowhere. - mr. assassin, here's your hint. i'm on the 20th floor. - go.
- do it for your daughter. - and now that he knows where i'm at i'm gonna try to do an ad
read without getting stabbed. turbotax is the number one way to get the biggest tax refund possible. on average last year, people get over $3,000
on their tax refunds. that's a lot of money. can you gimme like one minute
to finish this ad read? (footsteps thumping)
(crickets chirping) he didn't respond. i should probably start moving. turbotax will do your
taxes, wherever you are. even if you're running from an assassin. (door thuds) last year, turbotax helped
people get over $113 billion in tax refund. (alarm blaring) oh, god, that means he's up here. all right.
(footsteps thumping) come on.
(button clicking) (elevator chimes)
here with turbotax you can be confident your taxes are done right. (alarm blaring) and you're probably wondering if there was an elevator, why didn't he take it
all the way to the top? (elevator chimes)
well, 'cause i hid it with a secret wall. (wall thuds) (grunts) that hurts. a little too good of a secret wall. (bag thudding) (alarm blaring)
(suspenseful music) whoo! don't wait until
april'th to do your taxes. click the link description and get your tax refund
right now with turbotax. doing ad read while
running from an assassin is very stressful. mr. assassin. - jimmy. - listen to this real quick. (door clanks) that's my door to my
getaway vehicle later, nerd. (walkie-talkie thuds) - he just ninja flipped outta here again. (screen whooshes) - this time we're making
our exit in a lamborghini. tareq, what up. - wait, what are you doing?
- an assassin's currently running down 20 flights
of stairs to stab me. - oh, well we gotta go. - you're the driver. - all right, hold on, i need to learn how to drive this thing. - i don't even know how we
got down there so quick. part of me wishes i still
have the boys right now. - is this your first time
driving a lamborghini? - yes.
- oh, my god, whoa. - we gotta get back on our ride. - we're going to the helicopter. it's gonna fly us to a bank and then we're gonna blow up the bank. (graphic thumps)
(bag thuds) - whoo. (helicopter whirring)
(person speaking indistinctly) see you at the next location - hey, stop, stop, stop. (helicopter whirring) just missed him. let's go. let's go. hundred grand. his tracker's moving so fast. can't believe he's in
a helicopter right now. - the helicopter put me way ahead and now the assassin has
less than three hours to win a hundred grand. - that's the bank?
- for now it is. oh, god. let's see if he can stab me while i'm hiding in this double
reinforced steel bank vault. (walkie-talkie thuds) - tracker stopped, luckily
he didn't get too far. now i have an opportunity
to stab him before midnight and get my money.
- how's it going? - well, we're here. - i'm in the bank vault but i don't think you have
enough time to break in. good luck - bank vault. let's do it. bank's open late. (suspenseful music) (door slams) - he just kicked out a door. (doors slamming) i think he's literally lost his mind. (doors slamming)
(suspenseful music) (timer beeping) oh, my god. (hands thudding) - you in there, jimmy? (vault lock clanking) (door thuds) (nolan laughs) - (laughs) he fell for it. he fell for it. - it worked. - it worked. mr. assassin, there's two bank vaults and you picked the wrong one. - yeah, i saw one vault. figured that'd be the one. - [jimmy] above the bank vault you're in is another bank vault. but you didn't pick that one. you picked the easy one and
now you're trapped with nolan. is that a sledgehammer? (sledgehammer thudding)
(audio whistling) this thing's double steel reinforced, it doesn't matter. (sledgehammer thudding) - i really did fall for it, pretty bad at this one, didn't i? - [nolan] yeah. - chris, see that hook right there? i need to attach it there. i'm gonna attach this one here. and we'll get you outta
here in just a second. get comfortable, we might
move a little bit, okay? - you say get comfortable. - hold on to something. (wall cracking)
(chris grunts) - there's some activity going on right outside of the door here. - well, one, i might
actually win the challenge. the only thing standing between that safe and the road is this brick wall. - are you telling me to rob a bank? - yeah, actually i am. - [chris] and (indistinct). - why is this thing moving. - [jimmy] oh, my god. oh, my god.
- oh, my god. (upbeat rock music) (nolan grunting) - what is happening? - you didn't tell me about this part. - i can't believe that worked. if you're gonna rob a bank, why don't you just do it like this? nolan, has the assassin
attacked at you yet? - well, i'm talking to you, jimmy, so no. - darn. now we're gonna drive you
10 miles down the road. - i can't take this. - yeah, we're not going on the highway, are we? - you have one hour left to win this hundred thousand dollars. i'll make your transportation quick. all right, get 'em outta here. (vault crashing) - did we get lifted up
into the air at some point? (triumphant music) - [jimmy] oh, and as promised. (bank explodes) (upbeat music) literally, everything has
gone according to my plan. i crushed his car,
bamboozled him at the hotel, escaped in a lamborghini and a helicopter, and now he's trapped in a safe with nolan. there is less than 40 minutes
left in the challenge. so we're heading to one last location, because keeping him in a bank vault kind of feels like we're cheating. for our last location, we built a carnival, but all
of this is a very expensive and elaborate distraction while i'm gonna try to
fake a serious injury and see if he still stabs me. i'm gonna give him one last chance. this time, face to face. the truck is now here with the safe. i'm gonna go over there
and break my ankle. all right. (ladder thuds)
(siren blaring) i've never broken a film before. we ended the production and
had the camera crew leave. the only cameras that kept rolling were hidden spy cameras from far away. there's 20 minutes left in the challenge. let's see if he still stabs
me even though i'm hurt. i think you should let him out, tareq. guy, get ready. get ready. (door creaking) - guys, jimmy got hurt. - [assassin] really? - [tareq] literally, get out. jimmy got hurt. - [jimmy] no, it just hurts. (person speaking indistinctly) - [assassin] what happened? - my foot. - he fell off the ladder.
- right, so where (indistinct) - finished wrapping up-
- got all this for a broken ankle, huh? - yeah. (suspenseful music)
(knife clinks) - yeah, i don't know about that. (suspenseful music)
(heart beating) - so, was it that obvious? - whoo! let's go!
(triumphant music) you don't splint a broken ankle. - that is true. i should have broke my leg. i was hoping i'd get away with
it for at least a little bit. here's your a hundred thousand dollars. - this means a lot to me and my family. thank you.
- well, now i'm glad you stabbed me. that was a weird sentence. thank you guys for watching. - subscribe or i'm gonna hunt you down. [music] mr. beast goes [music] (bank explodes) - jimmy is it over? - jimmy
(hotel explodes)