- hey guys, this is austin. it's always an exciting
day when our friends at microsoft drop off a brand new console and this, well this is a a technically all new console. this is the xbox one
s all digital version. sadly they didn't go with
my title of the xbox 1d but as you can see here,
this xbox has exactly zero disc drives of any kind. it's actually all over the
box, i mean, they've got it, disc-free gaming, they
have a little icon here. i mean, even when you go
to open it up there's a piece of tape saying disc-free game play, aka please don't buy this
and return it to the store when you realize that you
can't put your discs in it. now without a disc drive you
cannot do any physical games on the xbox one s. you are going to need to
rely on downloading them which to be fair i think a
lot of people do these days. i know ever since the xbox
one and the ps4 came out, i pretty much entirely
switched over to buying them digitally. now there was the psp go,
what, ten years ago now? which was a similar concept
but that was a little bit too far ahead of it's time. i think these days a lot
more people are interested in the idea of just
downloading your games. it's much easier to move
across different platforms and especially a lot of the
games these days on xbox also do work on the
windows pc side of things as long as you don't mind
dealing with the, uh, i don't want to say games for windows. the microsoft store? what do they call it? and i actually will
mention that even though this obviously looks very,
very similar to the one s, it is not replacing it in the line. you will continue to be able
to buy the one s, the one x, and you will also have
the one s digital edition. all digital edition. well, the very first thing
i can notice, its lighter which i guess makes sense that there's not an ultra hd blu-ray player inside. and here is the console itself. now it looks very similar,
except it [laughing] it looks so weird. like, it's just, it's
the exact same thing. in fact, let me actually grab a one s. i mean, if you put these two side by side it is completely identical looking. so i mean all of the vents
are the same on the side, you've got the same top
vent, i mean there's really no difference in any way
except that they just changed out that piece of plastic here. now one perk to buying
the all digital version is that you actually get some
pretty decent included games. so there's a copy of forza horizon 3, we have sea of thieves and
we also have minecraft. now this is all great, but
the one s all digital edition does not exist in a vacuum
because it is being sold alongside the one s, it
has to compete with that. so the real problem here is price. the all digital edition
costs 250 dollars msrp which sounds good considering
that that is 50 dollars less than the standard version of the one s. however, it does not take much
searching to find a lot of one s's well below that on amazon. for example, there's one
that is 220, even 230 with a game that's presold like
battlefield 1 included. that, that's a little bit of a problem. by the way, if you want these game codes, feel free to go for it,
although you better be fast. if you can buy a one s for
the same price or cheaper than the all digital version, then do it. i mean it's literally the
exact same thing except it has an ultra hd blu-ray drive. now there's a lot of people
i think which will be very happy to use the all
digital version, right? i mean, if you're not using
discs, if you're not watching blu-rays and stuff then
there really is no advantage to having that extra 50
dollar disc drive included. but the price is really
where it comes down, right? i mean, if you don't get
this at a cheaper price than the one s, it is a
completely ridiculous thing to ever purchase. so if you're buying an xbox one today, these are your three options. so starting out with a
250 dollar price tag is the xbox one s all digital. now just like with the one s,
which comes in at 300 dollars, it does support 4k video
even though the gaming side of things is definitely a
little more on the 1080p side of the resolution, but
besides the blu-ray drive which is of course missing
on the all digital version, these are completely identical. ports, power, performance,
all that kind of stuff. now, if you step up over
to the xbox one x, it also does have the ultra hd
blu-ray drive, 4k support and all that kind of thing,
but the main difference here is that this is a much
more powerful console. one x is able to play most
games at a very easy 4k and especially with games
such as red dead redemption, when you put these consoles side by side, the one x looks so, so much better. but, then again it's like
double the price, so. so from what i've been
told, the internals of the all digital version are
essentially the same as the one s, mostly to keep costs down. but that doesn't mean that
i don't want to actually see this for myself. now you may recall a video
we did when the one s first came out where we took
a little peek on the inside. now, i'm assuming it should be
a pretty similar experience. oh wow, its so imbalanced. wow! like all of the weight is
definitely here, like this that's got to be hollow. so after removing our
warranty's void sticker and working out this little
plastic piece on bottom, we should be able to get it out. there we go. the same part that i got like
freaked out about last time. there we go. so after moving a bunch of
screws, i think the case should just come away now. hey okay, alright. so that's enough pieces
of xbox for one day. well i guess, here's the first difference. there's obviously a new
metal piece here to cover up where the disc drive used to be. something tells me microsoft,
they didn't want you to be looking at this. like, no, no, no. we're, uh, we're not hiding anything here. alright, now with that, yep, okay. well that [laughing] i wonder where the disc drive used to be? [laughing] just a little bracket here
and that's literally it. so we still see the same
one terabyte hard drive from before. you have the internal power
supply as well as the fan. but where there used to be a disc drive, no disc drive. so we have fan number one,
power supply number three, hard drive number four,
and disc drive number two. um, yeah. so to be fair i don't really want to be that mean on microsoft. there not trying to hide what
they're doing here at all. this is a one s that they
removed the disc drive for, and they've essentially
passed that savings on to you. now sure, would i have
liked to have seen a different form factor? i mean, with this kind of
empty space they could have very easily made this
something, you know, even if you just rotate the hard
drive, i mean, it would've been at least a little bit smaller. but realistically, i mean,
what they're doing here is not trying to make the smallest xbox they can. what they're trying to do is
make the cheapest one possible. when you consider that
by removing that ultra hd blu-ray drive and you're losing
50 dollars from the price, that kind of adds up, i mean,
they're pretty much just passing it right on to you. interesting, so there is an
additional sata port here on the board, which makes sense
because they didn't change it. i wonder if you could install
your own blu-ray drive? i mean, theoretically, i
would think it would work. oh, you could try to
install another hard drive. i mean, there's definitely room for it. you would have to come up
with your own mount but, theoretically, i mean,
with that sata port. but, do you know what, do you
think this is actually gonna recognize a second internal hard drive? i don't think it will. okay, so actually i don't
think a second hard drive will work. so you do have the sata
cable and you have the power, but it's a proprietary pent
out which means that not only can you not use another one
s cable, you'd essentially have to make your own. now the software, nothing
seems to be all that different but i'm curious, can i actually
install the blue-ray player? oh i can actually do it. it says its qued up. what happens if we open
up the blue-ray player? oh okay, alright. well you know, its worth the shot right? like i said before, you should
expect the exact same level of performance from the one s
as you get on the all digital edition. that means that most games are
going running between 720 and 1080. its not going to look as nice
as the one s but you do get the same advantages of being
able to play like 4k netflix and what not. or and you also can die in
compet, that's still possible. [laughing] the xbox one as all digital
version is an interesting console. there's a big part of me that
wishes that this was a least a little bit of a different
form factor that they took advantage of the lack of disc
space to kind of shrink it. but i understand what they
were going for in here. this is not a slim version
of the console, this is not a replacement for the one s. this is very simply a cheaper
version of the xbox one that already have. if this is the same kind of
price that the xbox one has and it lands up being 200
dollars or less, i think its a really compelling deal. however if its 250 dollars
and the one s is cheaper than that, yeah good luck with that.