- every dog in this dog shelter will get adopted. we are going to launch the
biggest marketing campaign you have ever seen. and we are not gonna stop until all these dogs find a home. but first, let me introduce
you to the doggos. this is foxtrot, winston,
iris, monica, taffy, didi, zeppelin, grumpy, tommy,
jive, noah, pepper, gia, and this is kelly, she's really shy. they deserve a home. (epic music) which is why i bought this billboard to bring more traffic to the shelter. and we also made some flyers that we're gonna hang up all over town. yield, we have doggos, go adopt them. some of you older
subscribers might remember when we helped out pewdiepie
we got this box truck. well, i got another one to
help out the dog shelter. it's very big. winston, you're gonna find a home soon. look at how cute this dog is. he deserves a nice loving home. oh, hey good boy. karl, you're trying to tell
me you don't wanna adopt him? - he is perfect. (chandler breathes heavily) - i mean, i feel like we're bonding more than y'all are bonding. - [karl] absolutely not. - i mean, take a look. - sorry, are you getting neck
licks or is that just me? - sorry, are you putting a
dog to sleep by your cuteness? comment down below, which
is cuter foxtrot or jive? - we know.
- vote jive. if jive wins, nevermind (chandler chuckling)
- what? you'll adopt? - okay, we gotta go. sorry, foxtrot.
(chomping sound effect) (group chuckling) - and now we go into
command center and wait. we're gonna monitor these cameras and see if our billboard works. now we wait. these dogs are gonna
get nice, loving homes. (edm music) (karl grunting)
wait. (chandler gasps) okay, she's here. - isn't she cute? - [blonde woman] hey there, iris. - (mrbeast gasping) she's looking at iris. - [all] iris, iris. - she's holding iris. oh, look at that. look
at iris playing with her. - guys, 100% yes.
- yes. - she wants him right now.
- okay. we're gonna give her 10 years
worth of dog food for free. as a congratulations for adopting iris, we wanted to give you 10
years worth of dog food. - i'm so excited. i'm adopting her. (kissing dog) - i th`ink we caught her so off guard that she just didn't know what to say. - or she's already had
10 years of free food and now she doesn't know
what to do with the extra 10. - [mrbeast] yeah, 'cause
20 years is a lot. (group chuckling) - yeah. - yes, we got one. all right, taffy, we're
finding you a home. we're finding you a home. we're gonna find 'em all a nice house. i honestly did not think the
billboard would work that fast. hey, let's go boys. and now let's wait for the next adopter. (quirky music) i can't believe how well our
marketing campaign is working. we got another family in here. gia just went in the room
and she looked so happy. look at her tail wagging. tyler, go do the deal. - alpha brava, no re-
(camera collapses) - alpha brava, we need a new chair. (group laughing) ("batman theme" by neal hefti) - it's a yes. it's a yes. you're gonna adopt her? - yes.
- congratulations. we want to give you $5,000
as a, just thank you. we're happy for ya, gia. - the $5,000 was unexpected
to say the least. that can take me so far
for so long with her. - gia has been at this
shelter for six months. so the staff wanted to go say goodbye. - [staff member] you know,
cleaning her, loving her. - so proud of you. - loving her. you're gonna be so happy. do great in your new home, gigi. i love you. - [all] bye. - and that is another dog. there we go.
(all celebrating) where's chandler? - [tyler] pooping. - chandler, chandler, gia, gia's gone. - who?
- we got another one. - all right. - oh, did you wash your hands? - i'm gonna cut this off. now, we're gonna take professional
photos of all the dogs. i don't wanna just use this
same design over and over. and we're gonna start off with winston because he's the best dog here. (mrbeast laughing) okay, winston, you're up first. (fancy xylophone music) (group exclaiming) - how do i not keep petting him? i'm so sorry. (fancy xylophone music) - and, go. (group laughing) - yes, that's it. - there's not even one bad picture. - [mrbeast] you haven't
been in a video in a while. you wanna model with
pinky for the billboard? okay. (toy squeaks) - for the gram. (laughing) - [mrbeast voiceover]
i'm gonna take the photos we took of the dogs and edit
them for the billboards. - i am cute! scratches are dope! i like tennis balls! it's true, he does. - okay. foxtrot, into the bed you go. pat, pat, pat. - goodnight. i love you. - you were so pretty today. all right, get a good
night's sleep son, okay? - we're back from the photo shoot, and the dogs passed out. they were so tired. we've done so much today. so i'm gonna call it here for today. we're gonna let him get some rest, and tomorrow we have a lot planned. they will get adopted. (upbeat music)
we're celebrating because all these dogs
are about to get adopted. come on.
(celebrating) you're gonna find a home. you're gonna find a home. you're all gonna find a home
because we have a truck, fliers, we have everything. someone that sees our marketing is gonna come through that door soon. (quirky music) guys, guys, guys, look,
look, we have people. as you can see, they're
currently in this room. so they're gonna take
that dog in this room and see if these people
want to adopt them. that dog is kelly and she's super shy. there, the tail's coming. - (gasping) they're leaving. - how's it going? oh my gosh, she loves the dog. - let them know that
like we're paying for it. - gotcha. the adoption fee was $275,
but actually it was waived. - wait, so she's free? - sharpie's been sponsored. - oh my gosh. - [tyler] yes, they're adopting for sure. - oh, they are?
- yeah. - this is a $10,000 petco gift card. i'm gonna go give it to them. - is that mrbeast? - huh? - oh my gosh, that's mrbeast. - we wanted to give you
guys $10,000 to petco. - are you serious? - yeah. we want all the dogs here
when they get adopted to have great lives. - whoa, this is so crazy. - promise us she'll get tons of scratches. - yes. (dog barking) - hey taffy, you're next. (celebrating) (dogs barking)
- oh, oh, oh. we're getting the dogs a little excited. and now let's wait for the next adopter. (elevator music) (mrbeast sighing heavily) this is taking longer than i thought. i think we need more billboards. - i'll pay.
- yes! - really?
- no. - i bought 50 more billboards
and i'm not even joking. i'll count 'em for you. billboard number one of 50. two.
- three. - four.
- five. - six.
- seven. - eight.
- nine. (fast forwarded counting till 50) - and 50. i was not joking. we are going all out for this dog shelter. they will be adopted. we also have a radio station interview. our friend, ethan's gonna do it for us. as of right now, you guys
don't know who he is, which is why he's perfect
for the radio interview because i want people
listening to come adopt a dog because they want one not
because it's the beast crew. - you're perfect 'cause
nobody knows who you are. i was pretty much the
same way a month ago. (laugh track rolls) - so we're planning to
put up a ton of billboards to get them the exposure they need. - yes, really special. i love it. - and next i need you to
put on this doggy costume and hold this "cute doggos
inside" sign out front. - my name puddles.
(laughing) come adopt a dog. they're all just as cute as me. flashed his lights at me. - (laughing) stop! - all 50 billboards are up. the truck is driving around. we still have the fliers. tyler, go man the floor. i want you two suited up just in case tyler needs
backup, alpha delta. didi, we launched a
huge marketing campaign. we trained you for this didi. - they're adopting, baby. they said, i want to adopt this dog. so we actually have a sponsor today and they wanted to reward you guys because you guys decided to adopt a dog. - yay! - my last dog died in october. so it was time for a new friend. i'm glad she picked me. - congratulations. aww. and now the door's
closed, so we can be loud. (celebrating) she's adopted! - all right, they're about to walk up. they're in the front. we got this. - [man] so let's go back and see zeppelin. - he is adorable. (zeppelin barking) - they're bringing their
current dog outside to meet zeppelin to see
if they get along together before they adopt him. all right, we're getting somewhere. they're bonding a little bit. - guys, guys, guys, guys. they adopted him, dude.
- yes. yes. - karl did the last person. so chandler, it's your turn. - all right. this is what you're getting
because you adopted, you adopted zeppelin. - oh my goodness. that's why he kept saying extra free. (chandler breathing heavily) i dropped the sign as
soon as i started talking. i was freaking out. - [karl] it was so funny. - bye zeppelin.
- bye zeppelin. - i'm gonna miss you, zeppelin. goodbye. and another one's adopted. - let's go.
- let's go, boys. (slurping) - karl, sit down, sit down. - what's up? - jive is being looked at. yeah, someone's about to adopt jive. go, go, go
- go, go. - that tail does not stop
wagging for 15 minutes. - [chandler] yeah, she loves you guys. (squeaking) (chandler screaming) - [mrbeast] chandler, what
do you have to report? - they're taking jive away from me. - you still have us. - you got pet insurance for 10 years guys. - that's awesome. - 'cause we got jive a good home. - [mrbeast] congratulations. - bye jive.
- bye jive - thank you.
- aww, no problem. - appreciate you guys so much. - and he's gone jive, jive, jive, jive, jive, jive (somber music) - you have karl. (chandler blows nose)
okay. - look who's not gone yet. - he's a good boy.
- good 'ol good boy. - hey, good boy eugene. - he's gonna be gone when i take him home. - aww. okay, a new couple just walked in. is that noah or tommy? - [karl] that's tommy. (gasping) he caught him midair, no. - tom-ster seems happy. how'd it go in there? - got him. - not only are they adopting, they freaking love that dog. real quick, i wanna let you know that every single person that
does adopt a dog is vetted. they fill out applications. they do all that good stuff. we're not just giving these
dogs to random people. just so you know. hey, we wanted to give
you a $10,000 gift card to petco as a congratulations
on finding tommy a home. - thank you so much.
- thank you. - [mrbeast] no problem. look at that tail wagging. - took a few seconds to warm up. yeah, he brought us the ball. we threw it around. now look at him. - [woman] yeah. - tommy! tommy!
- yeah, tommy. - [crew] tommy! tommy! - congratulations tom. winston, you're next! noah, you're next! you're all next. so far, half the dogs have been adopted. we have about an hour left until the shelter closes for the night. no, oh, we got more people. - you are gonna freak when
you see this little guy. he's precious. - wait, they're looking at winston. (gasping)
- oh no, wait winston. - oh no. wait, more people just came in. - [karl] is this a second group? - the billboards are working. all right, let's go. so we have a family in here with tyler. that's their dog that they brought. currently with monica
is this other family. chandler's helping them out. so we got chandler here. we got tyler here. another family walks in, we send you out. we got this. oh my gosh, look at how
much fun winston's having. we're about to lose eyes
on the family with monica. we didn't rig a camera in that room 'cause we didn't think two
families would come at once. sending in backup for chandler. as you see on this camera, karl's just awkwardly
talking to the receptionist, like he always does. he always has to say something. how's it going? - monica's as good as gone. - hey. okay.
- let's go. - how about winston? - i think winston's as good as gone, too. - oh my gosh, two for two. come on now. - so basically we're gonna get
'em like an actual doghouse but it's like a human house. they forgot to tell 'em the
adoption fees were waived. - yeah. - it's buy zero, get one free baby. (disco music) - [chandler] so what
made you decide on lady? - well, i have always wanted an older lab. the older dogs get
overlooked in the shelter and this girl deserves to live out, you know, her last years in a good home. - we're gonna give her a amazing home. - we are. - bye winston. - aww, you guys are really lucky. i love winston. also, bye lady at the same time. we'll miss you, lady. and most importantly, winston. - oh, boom. (explosion effect) - hello, sweetie pie. - [mrbeast] low key, maddy's
been spending a lot of time with pinky and i think
she really likes her. as soon as i saw pinky, i
knew she was the dog for me. we just have to convince jimmy. - so you really like pinky? - yeah. - interesting. the shelter is now closed for the day and we're gonna take
all the dogs remaining to the store to buy
all the toys they want. - especially this guy right here. - go ahead and adopt him. - really? - it's obvious you love him. - i'm gonna adopt him. i already filled out the paperwork. - so you adopted him? - yes, and his name is swaggy. - congrats! - [karl] wow, stop looking so excited (mrbeast laughing) - guys, i got a dog. - we're at the pet store. anything they want, they can have. - [tyler] you think you
can eat a bone that big? - [karl] oh, he picked this one. there you go, buddy. - you're gonna have
fun, aren't you, buddy? - she is in a pink world. yes! - very sure we have enough. - taffy has a bunch of toys. grump, aka swaggy's
enjoying his new kennel. he's in there on his own free will. fox has a mountain of toys. pepper's just confused. - [pepper voiceover] huh? - noah's viciously attacking them. and that's it for today. at the rate dogs we're adopted today, every single dog here
will find a home tomorrow, which is amazing. and i'm really excited. also, you can't just leave
this many toys in their kennel because they might choke on 'em. so obviously we're gonna get rid of 'em. good morning, doggos. we brought them a special breakfast. gourmet dog food.
(classical music) - here you are my good sir. enjoy. - morning, noah. you want some food? - [chandler] for you, my dude. - there you go. eat up. oh, pinky was hungry. adopters showed up and
we're nine command center. so, we need to sneak out the back door. go. we're trying to be secretive about this. okay, they're coming in the front door. (spy music) i need you to breach. (karl knocks his arm against the door) - ow.
(laughing) - go, go, go. all right, boys, we made it back to command center. as you can see, they're
having fun with noah. - [karl] ew, what kind
of shoe is he wearing? - he broke this foot, karl. - oh my gosh. - grab as much dog food
and toys as you can. - we have to give them a
good parting gift for noah. all right, come on, keep the toys coming. all right, this should be good boys. they're gonna be really
happy they adopted noah. congratulations on your new adoption. to celebrate, we wanted to give you a bunch of dog food and toys. - [karl and chandler]
yeah, noah. (clapping) - wow, look how happy he is. - thank you, bye. - noah didn't waste any time on this. they're gone, we need to go take care of the next family. come on, let's go. taffy and the squad is about
to come in the front door. if they adopt taffy, then
foxtrot, peffer and pinky are the three left. - peffer? - i said pepper. play the clip. peffer and pinky. they've officially adopted taffy. time to surprise them. congratulations on adopting taffy. we wanna give you guys a
$10,000 gift card to petco and unlimited dog food and toys. - oh my gosh. (mrbeast crew applauding) - taffy and noah were just adopted. - woo!
- bazinga! the only dogs left are
foxtrot -- what a cutie -- pepper and pinky. it's rush hour, and two more
families are popping up. i want you to take care of one. i want you to take care of the other. tyler, you chill here
with me in command center in case a third comes. all right, over and out. roger.
- three, two, one, go. - we come bearing gifts. - gifts? - because you got pepper a beautiful home. - what? it's a real blessing. it really is. - we appreciate you guys adopting through. we're trying to get rid of all these dogs. did you guys expect to come
away with $5,000 of extra stuff? - no.
- no, not at all. - that's amazing. - that is amazing. - everybody's ecstatic.
(dog barking effect) they're happy with their dogs. they're happy with their free money. who would've thought? - they're filling out the
paperwork to adopt foxtrot and the woman adopting pepper is also filling out her paperwork. the only one left is pinky. - [all] woo, pepper!
(all cheering) - congratulations, pepper! - here's all your toys for pepper. - [group in unison] foxtrot! - can karl get one last pet of foxtrot? he loves this dog (karl kissing dog)
- through the mask. - and enough food to feed
foxtrot until he's like 30. pinky is the last dog remaining. okay, good girl. i'm gonna go ahead and call
maddy and tell her to come. and she's conveniently the
last dog at the shelter, which i think is a sign. do you think we should adopt pinky? - absolutely.
(maddy chuckling) - you're 100% sure? - yes. - i guess we're gonna adopt you, pinky. i don't have a dog, but i have a yard. - (maddy chuckling) i have a yard. - even though every dog in
this shelter was adopted, the company we're working with, furkids, still has tons of other facilities
with tons of other dogs. which is why i have darren here and he's gonna ask for your help. - what jimmy has done for us
has been an absolute miracle. in our 19 years history, nothing like this has ever happened to us. - if you guys wanna help furkids, which is by the way that no-kill shelter, like they genuinely care about dogs, there'll be a link description. every dollar you donate will go towards them building a bigger facility so they can help thousands of dogs that are like genuinely in need. - jimmy is every bit as nice and sincere on camera in real life. - all right, stop it. i hate when people do this. click the link and go donate.
- no, it's true. i'm sorry. - subscribe. we'll see you later. (explosion booming)
[music] mrbeast 6000 oh, oh, oh [music] [music] mrbeast 6000, yeah, you know his name [music] [music] he changed it once or twice [music] [music] but i think it's here to stay [music] (explosion booming)