- hey, guys, this is austin. today we have a challenge. so i gave ken and wes a $1000
budget to get absolutely everything we need to make a video. we're talking camera, lenses, lighting, absolutely everything so let's see what kind of disaster you guys
have cooked up for us today. alright, so i see some promising things. the main rule here is that
we need to shoot a 4k video and it's on a normal product. this is the asus that i've
been spending about a week on. so this is a main channel
video, it's not like we're just doing this for fun. we're actually doing a
real video and the goal is for no one to be able
to tell this is not shot on our very very expensive
gear and not, well... what are we shooting it on? - [ken] we decided to think
outside the box a little bit. - [wes] just a little bit. - [ken] yeah, because we wanted something with interchangeable lenses. - these are very old pentax lenses. - yeah. - they're very good pentax
lenses for the money. - [austin] okay, okay. - [ken] we wanted something
that was fairly high quality, something that would give
us a lot of dynamic range. - i'm trying to figure out what you're about to bring out right now. - we decided to explore
our past a little bit and we got a canon 5d mark 2, which... as you would find out- - [austin] it doesn't shoot 4k. - yes, it does not shoot
4k, but what it does do is magic lantern raw. - oh! okay, alright. - [ken] the idea is that
when we shoot raw, we'll get a very clean image, wes can
go into that a little more, but with the hope of upscaling it. - very clean. - these are old manual lenses,
ranging from 60's and 70's. they're fantastic. i think we got all of
these for around 100 bucks. - [austin] $100 combined? wow. - [wes] yeah, we got a 28, a 35 and a 55, all full frame for around 100 bucks. - [austin] okay, so they
should be nice and sharp. - [wes] they're very sharp. the minor downside is that some of them are a little bit radioactive, but it's nothing to worry about. so we've got a few other
things here, like macro rings, which will help us get
some close product shots. - so i see... oh, a zoom h1. - yes, we got one used for $50. - i was about to say i notice- - also does not have a battery door. - [austin] so i will say
i used to use a zoom h1 way back in the day. this was the youtube setup of 2011, 2012. why is that such a long cable? oh, you got a lav-
- yeah, yeah. so you can choose to put it in
your pocket with the zoom h1. it's like a lav pack that
doesn't need to be wireless, so you can clip it like that
or if you want to keep it on the camera, this cable
is long enough so you can run it around.
- oh! - especially while getting that nice shot from across the room. so the zoom h1 used was $58. - so this is pretty
much a full audio setup for less than $100. - yeah, and it came with
an sd card and it came with this thing too.
- oh! - you can just (pop effect). - so this is pretty much it. i also see you guys have a... what kind of filter is this? - it is an nd filter.
- oh, okay. it is a little bit bright in here. oh, it's variable too. - [ken] yeah, it's variable. it becomes darker, it becomes lighter. it's literally perfect for our usage. - do you guys wanna
describe what nd filters do? - it's basically sunglasses
for a camera lens. - this is the top reviewed amazon special for less than 80 bucks. this is actually 75. - [austin] hang on, let me do the test. - [ken] yeah, wait, wait, wait. don't break it. - [austin] how many locks does this have? - [ken] it has a lock for
everything that moves. - okay.
- ken, what's the brand? - it is... orion tritech two. - that's the tritech two?
- no! - wow, i was such a
fan of the tritech one. - [austin] this is actually pretty solid. you can get a little cranky, cranky, dude. - easy, easy, there's
that other lock on ya. - okay, there we go. - so if you have a two man
team, you can actually get some really nice- - look at that jib. - get some jibbing motions there. - these, i think, are some
of the best cheats ever, as far as budget lighting goes. these are just work lights,
work reflector lights. the key, though, is if you buy
these on home depot's website, you can get 300 watt-
- oh! - 300 watt capable fixtures. we got six of them. each of them were like eight,
nine bucks and if you order, i think it's more than 35
bucks, it's free shipping. we have a giant bed sheet
to pump them through to get some nice diffusion. this is maybe one of the
cheapest ones we got at target. if you search around a
little bit, you can get these bags of clamps for eight or nine bucks. - [austin] so that's the thing,
with something like this, the entire cost of all of
these lights, the fixtures, everything is probably what
a somewhat decent led panel by itself would give you. these are not cheap to run. - no.
(ken laughs) - and they're toasty. if you
don't have air conditioning in your room or unless
you're living in a cold area, it's gonna get very hot very quickly. - [ken] so ten year old
youtubers in alaska. - [wes] yes, only film during winter. - great, great advice. a five year old 5d with hacked
software, a bunch of very very fire hazardy looking
lights, they're definitely- - oh yeah, blow the dust out
of them when you get them from home depot, otherwise
you're gonna be smelling that. - [austin] so how do you want to shoot this as far as in what order? essentially, it's
broken up into a quick intro, we've got the hardware section,
performance and conclusion. it's basically two small sections and then two fairly beefy chunks. it's funny, when you look at this, it doesn't look all
that impressive, right? you see a bed sheet and
a couple of shop lamps, but there's a lot of
little tweaks that make a huge difference when you're
shooting a video like this. (snaps fingers)
- nada. - so the zoom h1 works,
but we're just not getting levels from the lav. okay, great, do we have a back up plan? - um, yeah...
- talk, talk, test, test. - that's it.
- is that really what it is? - yeah. - so we have to use the adapter to go in- because basically this one
has the microphone input. - right, that's probably what it is. - talk, talk, test, test, okay. oh wait wait wait. what if we used the extender
to go run headphones? ay, right? - that's not a terrible idea, actually. (laughs) - basically, we'll just
run this long ass cable on the floor over to where
you are so you can still hear. i'll just tuck this behind me. - oh, that works super well. - this is the asus vivobook e203ma. at first glance, it looks
every bit its $200 price tag, but at this kind of price,
you can't really expect much beyond plastic. - [ken] the reason why
we're in 720 is because we needed to get that
consistent record time. - we can get more resolution,
we're just gonna give up- - give up record time. - are we... are we dealing with anything like
moire or anything like that by going down to such a low res? - no, no. - well we are trying to offload
the raw footage from the 5d. we have one file that's
showing up correctly. the rest of them are a
different file extension. the internet seems to
think that they're the same kind of file, just named weird. - so wes is trying to crunch the raw data. i think all the footage is there, but we don't know for sure. what we are trying to
do is see if the camera will be able to load it
up, which it looks like... ay, that's a video. right now, this is one of
the most important parts of any video. it's when ken gets to
get all the pretty b-roll to make the product actually look cool. is it actually going to
look cool, though, or no? - yeah, it'll look fine. so this is still a cheap
tripod even though, you know, it does have a fluid head
and it does work super well, every now and then do you find the snags along any pans or tilts. that forces me to stop because
i don't want to fight it. 'cause if you fight it, things
start to look super jerky. wes pointed out that there
was some screen tearing, which might've been a result
of slight overheating. - [austin] (groans) noooooo. - it's good now.
- why? - it's been a long day, but
this is actually kind of fun. i guess it's kind of fun for me. we've got a little bit
of a different style, a little bit of a different shoot. i don't know how much... well the 5d
hasn't broken on us yet. - yeah.
- why'd you say that? - [austin] come on, we're basically there. it's fine. we're getting extra stuff now. alright. (claps) (exhales deeply) alright, so thoughts on this
whole experiment so far? - it's interesting.
- yeah, a challenge, right? - [ken] um, yeah, it's a
challenge in the sense of it's definitely old,
antiquated technology. - i mean a ten year old camera, right? - a ten year old camera
that wasn't initially made to shoot video. - what would you do differently
if you were going to do this entire challenge again tomorrow? different camera, i'm guessing, right? - [ken] there are probably
cameras that are four to $500 with interchangeable lenses. if we looked hard enough,
i feel you could probably find something better, but this
was a genuinely interesting challenge just to see
how far we could push it. - i will say, i think just
from the tests that we've done, i think i'll at least be
able to grade it to the point where, as far as the colors
and dynamic range goes, we'll be able to monkey it a little bit. the biggest thing i'm
suspicious of is the sharpness. - well we're shooting at 720p. - yeah, i'm gonna try some
fancy tricks to upscale it. we will-
- we'll see about that. - we will see. it's a hell of an upscale. - if you haven't seen it
yet, definitely be sure to go check out the final
video on the $200 laptop, which should already be live
by the time you watch this. i'm really curious, can
you tell the difference? i'm sure after watching all
this you most definitely can, but it goes to show what you can do with a pretty low budget. i mean $1000 is still a lot
of money, but considering that a lot of cameras cost
two, three times that, and that's just the camera
by itself, it's pretty cool. - yeah, it was definitely different.