- anything you can fit in
this circle, i'll pay for. - really? - really. you're starting off with two playstations? - yep. - what else do you want? - this is a good item right here. it's definitely not for me. - yeah, this t-rex? - yeah, it's not for me. - okay. - before i get more stuff, i'm gonna see how this fits in the circle. - oh, you're stacking them vertical. don't let it touch the red tape. if you touch that red tape, chandler, we put everything back. - finesse, baby.
- okay. candler, you can walk
away with all this stuff, or you could keep stacking up more. - let's keep stacking. - you want a switch? - yeah. - how about two?
- yeah. - [mr. beast] you want another switch? - yeah. we should switch it up and get a switch. - good joke. are you sure you can make
that fit in the circle? - yeah. - you could probably put a
lot of that on the bottom. - or right here. - what else should chandler buy? do you think chandler should get this tv? - yes. - oh! all right, chandler,
it's inside the circle. is there room on the other side? - [chandler] oh yeah,
there's plenty of room on the other side. - it's free estate. - any of these items touch the red, he has to put it all back. here, you got it. there you go. oh, it's wobbly. - these are gonna be a problem. - [chris] what if it just falls over? - [mr. beast] all right. - here, you wanna put
the last one in there? - make sure you put it
right on the circle. there you go, congratulations, you got everything in the circle. (intense music) - here you go, little man. - thank you. - this is tyler, and tyler
anything you fit in this circle i'll pay for. - it looks like a rectangle. - well, that's the table. - oh, is there a circle under it? - yes. - oh, okay. - all right, this is a
$280 anime statue doll. you should get it. - but i had my eye on that. right when i came in here,
i wanted to get this. - oh, okay.
- this would be cool. how big's the circle? - i mean, i don't know. tyler, do you want more stuff, or is this all you want? - yeah, more stuff, i'm not done. i saw this in the last mr. beast video. - do you really think this is gonna fit in that circle? okay, let's see it. there is no way this fits in that square, i'm just gonna be honest, he's lost. - this is a pretty shield, i wanna get it. i think i'm pretty satisfied. - this is a lot of stuff, this is probably like $10,000. - i'm gonna call it quits, for real. - let's get everything off the table and reveal to him his circle. - i'm actually nervous now. - are you ready to see how big your circle is?
- i wasn't nervous before. yeah, a little bit. - it's not actually a
circle, it is a square. - oh gosh. oh, there's a chance. - get it closer to the ground, so he can balance it more. - as long as it stays in the circle. - [tyler] yeah, it's definitely gonna fit. - [chandler] oh, guys, guys, wait, tyler, this is about to hit the red. - [tyler] fix it. - okay, i got it. you can go over the red tape as long as you're not touching the ground. - all right, how do you wanna do it? - all right, gentle. slow. where's the hole at? slow, slow, everyone take a second. all right, is anyone touching? - [chandler] i'm not. - okay, all right, we need to hurry. whoa, whoa, easy. - tyler, put everything else up there. - put everything, i'll hold it. - oh. i'm panicking right now. i didn't think i'd get this far. - [mr. beast] all right,
if anything falls, tyler, you lose. - you're freaking me out. you're freaking me out. - [mr. beast] and you wanted this shield. put the shield in the front, shield in the front.
- oh no. - there is no way this works. - whoa, okay. square check. - it's still in the square. is that everything? - hold on, hold on. - is this it?
- yeah. - all right, i'm off. - one, two. - let's go, let's do this! wow. - as you guys can see,
this mountain of stuff is all in the square. - how much faith did you have in me? - [mr. beast] i had zero faith. i would've bet every dollar i had that you wouldn't have made this work. - i needed all of this. - [mr. beast] yeah, you really needed that $5,000 joker statue. - up next is a grocery store and the people who are shopping this time work at a soup kitchen. this is a very big circle. they're gonna be able to
feed this soup kitchen for a while. - i'm the manager, and he's my treasurer. - we have a circle under this tarp. now i don't know if you
can see this circle, it's very well hidden. but anything you can fit
in this mysterious circle we'll pay for. we've bought everything
in the store before, so you're good. - she's getting excited. we are the only soup kitchen in town, and we served about
35,000 meals last year. - wow. - it's 240 people in one day, non-stop. - well here, let's get food. let's save the emotions for the end. - it's an ongoing thing. we have about 75 volunteers, and i feel this is my
calling, to feed people, to make sure nobody go
hungry, if i can help. - we have a power jack, so we can just grab this
whole bottle of water bottles. - thank you, lord. - we're just getting
started, don't cry yet. at the very end of this, i have a really cool surprise for them. watch 'til the end. - that's what my wife is, prego. - congratulations. - thank you. - i'm overwhelmed, i
am totally overwhelmed. this is just amazing. that ought to do it. - we have a lot of stuff over there, and a lot of carts over here. do you still think all this
will fit in this circle? - we're gonna give it our best try. - let's reveal the circle. wow, who would've guessed? everything's gonna fit and we don't even have to
take them out of the cart. chandler, place the final cart in. watch it not fit. oh no. what are you doing, chris? - [chris] nothing. and there it is. - oh wow, the circle magically extended. and congratulations. - you got to get the tears off of her. - wait, well don't start crying yet, 'cause i have one more surprise. here's a $20,000 check for
your soup kitchen as well. - i didn't even know you were doing that. - yep. at the end of the pizza video i said this, $20,000 donation to a food bank. and here we go. - thank you so much.
- thank you, baby. - thank you so much. - oh my god.
- that's awesome. - there you go. - we ain't never had
nobody bless us like this. nothing compared to this. - this really has made our year. - so we have a giant red circle here, and i'm putting a sign right here that says, "stand in the circle for $100." and we're starting a 10 minute timer. i'm gonna go hide and see
if anyone stands in it. all right, there's people
walking up to it, wait. oh, they ignored it. let's see if she does it. nope, she doesn't care. - [chris] oh wait, this guy. - [chandler] we're
grabbing some attention. - [mr. beast] i wonder
what they're saying. - that's scary. - i'ma do it. - yeah, i'ma do it too. - so if we stand in the circle when it hits zero, zero,
zero we'll get $100. - we'll get $100. - but what are they gonna do to us when it hits zero, zero, zero? - they're gonna dump something on us. - they gonna give me $100. - wow, there's so many people. i can't believe there's that many people. this is a people trap, this
is how you catch people. it'd be funny if we just
drove off and didn't pay them. chandler, here's a stack of money. chris, here's a stack of money. when we go up there, help me pay them. - how much do we give them a piece? - what does the sign say? - i didn't read it. - i can't believe you guys
actually sat in the circle. it's $100 for everyone
who was in the circle. (group cheering) thank you for standing in a circle. (group cheering) - thank you, give me a hug, bro. - all right. - can we say thank you, that was so sweet. - no problem. - i thought it was fake, not gonna lie. - i'm not even supposed to be over here. i mean, it's low risk,
high reward, why not? - up next is chandler again, and since he's already gone, we're gonna make the circle much smaller. - you're gonna let me do it? - yeah. he's gonna kill you when he watches this. this triangle is smaller than my hand. all right, chandler. look how big the tarp is,
the circle is ginormous - i'm getting this. - this is $400. how about you get this? - okay, now this, this
is something to get. oh, a brick. - aren't those 30 bucks? - i don't know, let's get a supreme brick. - this is an $1,800 louis vuitton bag. - okay. - i know you want it. - you don't have to convince me. these right here, very good shoe. and then we'll do these. - chandler's getting $500 pink
shoes and $570 green shoes. why are these shoes so
expensive, chandler? - you know, i couldn't tell you. - how big do you think this circle is? - i wanna get a bunch of
stuff, but i'm really scared that it's gonna be a small circle. - chandler, do you like triangles? - i like squares and circles. - what about triangles though, like pizza? - oh, pizza. - it's a pizza. - think a slice of pizza. that's what you're working with here. you have $1,000 in
shoes, a $250 teddy bear, $250 wire cutter, $400
statue, a $30 brick, a $2,000 bag, and like
a $1,000 wallet, okay? reveal the pizza. - where did you get the
piece of pizza from, a children's store? - yeah, none of this is gonna fit. so you're gonna start it
off with this little wallet, all right, see if you can fit
everything on that wallet. so it's a little wallet, then a brick. - i don't know if i would put the brick- - don't tell me what to do. - well, your plan is to stuff everything into your $2,000 bag and put it on top. - almost everything, yes. - all right, easy, easy. it's gonna fall, it's gonna fall, there's no way it doesn't. - all right, i gotta
place this very carefully. - [mr. beast] there's no way this works. - [chandler] dude, i'm like sweating. oh no. - [chandler] what's the wallet doing? - [chris] it's buckling. - all right, let's restart. - okay, wanna let him do it? - all right, you got it from here, bro. - all right, so you're
gonna try the bag again? - yeah, i'll try it again. - [chris] so last time i noticed- (group gasping) (chandler groans) - why am i being tackled? - i feel really bad. i gotta spend my own money now. - is this the time where we break the news that chris drew the pizza? - why would you give me that, like really? - how about we all just hug? no biting in this hug. and with that, on to the next place. for this next store, we have a big circle, because we're at a furniture store, and furniture is big. this is john, and he's gonna be doing
furniture shopping today. i heard that some flood struck your house. - came home after the flood, and we walked in the house, we could tell that the water
had been up 60 to 80 inches. - there's a giant circle over there and any furniture you can
fit in it, we'll pay for. pick it out and we'll buy it for you. - come on now. - any furniture that you can
fit in it, we'll pay for. - oh wow. - do you want this bed? - bed, two lamps. - all right, say no more,
they'll move it on over. - this one for the kitchen,
that's for the dining room. - do the plates come included? - because of you, we'll make it happen. - we're gonna run them up for everything. - oh! oh! i feel fantastic. (woman exclaims) - i don't know what's going on anymore. it's starting to fill up pretty nicely. oh, there's more furniture, all right. i don't know. - [man] this is the bedroom set you want? - [woman] yes, sir. - in one condition, you have to lay on it. come on, lay next to me. you know how much is this bedroom? - [mr. beast] how much? - $3,000. - what? i'm pretty sure we've spent
over $100,000 today already. it's okay, if you subscribe
it makes it all better. - fancy. (upbeat music) - [mr. beast] oh, it's
close, but it is in. it's in.
- it's in, we're good. - the circle is like practically full. this is gonna fill up your house. all right, so this is the final space, you're thinking a sofa? - sofa and love seat. - okay, see if it fits. - [man] just bring it that way. - [mr. beast] so as long
as that wheel, that's good, technically that's good. this doesn't look like it's in the circle, the wheels that are touching
the ground are in the circle, the sofa counts. - it feels good, baby. i'm just so excited, i
don't know what to do. i might not cry no more. (laughs) - god bless all of you. - god bless you, god
loves you, and i do too. - congratulations on
all your new furniture. i hope you guys end up loving it. - if not, can i come back? - i mean, sure. let's load it all up,
take it to the house. this furniture ended up
costing almost $30,000. i think we made the
circle a little too big. we're at a new store and
this next family is in need, so i'm gonna put you in
charge of drawing the circle. now remember, if they lose,
you're gonna feel like crap. with that information, make a circle. we got a pentagon. this is a lot of space, good job. ow. so this is the wilkerson family, and there is a circle
underneath these tarps. anything you can grab
that fits in the circle, we'll pay for. - this is the first time
we've ever done this, i'm glad, thank the lord. - this is a leg massager, you mentioned your legs were hurting, you want me to throw it in the cart? - please, thank you. - this is a big box, i hope it fits. do you guys want $100 toothbrushes? - $100 toothbrushes? - i got four of them right here. - y'all got a lot of money, huh? - if it fits in the circle, it
doesn't matter what it costs. this family clearly needs help, go make the trapezoid
bigger, as big as you can. make the whole store a trapezoid. - we need about four of them. - how about we just take all of them? - okay, all right, thank you. - christmas came early. - hey chris, you told them
to get a ninja blender, what do you like forenite? - oh, that's a good one. - i'm gonna go check on
chandler, i'll be right back. - okay. - [mr. beast] how's it coming back here? - [chandler] we gotta cover it up. - oh, you did extend it, wow. i'm seeing a little space right here, you might want to do a
little more extending. if they somehow lose, the
viewers are gonna hate you. how big do you think the circle is? - not that big. i'm gonna try to stack
it up close together. - i'm feeling blessed,
i need to find a church, 'cause i almost gave up. - that's actually how we
got in contact with you, the local pastor, he told us about you. you don't have a car either. - our car broke down. - chandler, she needs a car
and she has hospital bills. i need $10,000. - i'll call right away, hello, we need- - that's not a phone. - what is this? - [man] self-destruct activated. - it's my money, i'll go get $10,000. - okay, you get it. - they filled up 11 entire carts, i really hope it fits. let's reveal the circle. - that's the circle where the red tape at. oh my god. - so if all that fits in
here, we'll pay for it. - you like how i made this big enough? - yes, lord, it is very big. - you bought 13 carts full of stuff. oh, are you about to cry? - i am crying. - here's the last one. once this crosses it, everything is yours. and boom, we will pay for
all this, it is yours. - oh my goodness. - and you told me earlier you have a little bit of hospital bills and you need a car, so
here's a check for $10,000. - are you kidding? - to buy anything you need, not kidding. - what? - what, man, are you serious? - i'm about to have a heart attack. - oh my god! - oh my god. - i cannot believe this. ain't nobody ever helped
me this much in my life. i waited all my life. i'm about to have a heart attack. god bless y'all, thank you. oh my god, thank you so much. i try to give and show
everybody love and respect, and this is the most love and
respect i've ever been given in 70 years. - who's cutting onions, geez? - me, this morning for my lunch. - for those of you who
gave up like i did, don't. - up next is erica, and
she works with people with learning disabilities. do you want to tell them a little more about what you do? - we work with people
who have intellectual and developmental
disabilities in their homes and try to make them as
independent as possible. - wouldn't it make sense
to show her the circle, because it's for a good cause? pick a number between one and three. - three.
- doesn't matter. here's your circle. - nothing can touch that red tape at all. - all right, go for it. so she's about to get a couple tablets, and why do they need tablets? - tablets are important for the people who can't speak for themselves, they don't have a voice. some folks, they have autism, they have language input, but not output, so they can't tell you
what they're thinking and tell you what they want. - literally every tablet, we'll take it. so how many does rsi work with? - at least 50, 75, 100. - say no more. - these are 199 a piece. - okay, that's a lot of headphones. sike, there's still more on the shelf, what are you guys doing? - do they have fitbits? - three rows over. - i wonder what's in here. (man screams) oh god. how about here? - [man] let's play rage- - wrong video. - a lot of folks need help
with brushing their teeth, 'cause it's hard to reach in the back. - i got these. - let's do it. these are the fitbits. this gives them control of their life and they would love this. - this looks like a very expensive cart, but it's for people in
need, so i don't care. all right, let's bring
it all to the circle. - i feel like i'm gonna
be out of the circle, i'm scared. okay, i think this is good. i hope i'm fitting in the circle. - this scares me, it's very close, not even a finger-width away. i'm gonna slide it this way a little bit. (dramatic music) - is that the last piece? - all right, here, you get to
put the final item up there. - [erica] no pressure. - now we count to two. - [mr. beast, chandler,
and chris] one, two. - congratulations. all of this stuff, we'll pay for. - thanks, guys, this is really amazing, and the people at rsi are gonna love this. i'm looking at everything here and i'm just seeing
how many different ways it's gonna impact their lives. brushing teeth, obviously
with oral health, the headphones, noise canceling, it's gonna help them out in the community and not be as afraid, so they can be active members of society. this right here is just gonna impact them in so many ways, you can't even imagine. - thank you for allowing us to help them. we're gonna head to the next store. and this time our contestant is a middle school baseball coach. there is a circle under this tarp, and whatever you buy, if
it fits in that circle, we'll pay for. - definitely need a new catcher's mitt. let's go look at some cleats. - right now he's grabbing
cleats for his players. - this is way more pressure
than i thought it would be. yeah, now let's see if we can make it fit. - oh, that was close. he's still not touching
the red, he's good. so this helmet belongs right here. all right, you have two bats left. - so this is the climatic ending. - okay.
- hands up, two seconds. - one, two, bingo, you won. - wow, that is awesome. - now we're gonna check out
and go surprise his team. hey, what's up, everyone? okay, i guess they know who we are. we have a surprise for you guys. your coach competed in
a challenge and won. (kids cheering) come over. please, no one get hurt. before we go, can me and chandler hit
some baseballs real quick? (kids cheering) all right, chandler, show us. (balls thudding) and that's it for now, we're
going to the next store. - you guys know the deal, we have a circle under this tarp, she doesn't know how big the circle is, anything you fit in there, i'll pay for. here's a $400 hair dryer. - all right, i got your xbox. do you want a hover board? - i sure do. - okay. if we reveal the circle, you
can't grab anything else. - reveal it. - okay, reveal the circle. (woman laughs) - i was thinking it was
gonna be so much bigger. all right, so i'm starting with this. - [mr. beast] don't let it touch the red. - there you go. so this is gonna go on top here. okay. - this is her final item. she's going for the stack. okay, wow, boom. everything fit in the circle,
congratulations, you won. - thank you. - as you guys know, chris
is about to be a dad, and logically we're at a baby store. anything you can fit in
the circle under this tarp we'll buy for tucker. - there you go, that looks good. - okay, that's a lot of clothes. so you want this car seat? - yeah. - okay, do you want this thing? he's just gonna have to install this seat in this car. i hope this seat fits in the circle. - isn't it a crazy thought that one day in the future, he might be watching this. - so tucker, 10 years down the road, when you're nine and a half
years old and watching this, what do you want him to know? - i was cool at some point, right? - was he cool?
- when was that? - let's clear everything off the table and reveal the circle. - that's not as big as i
thought it was gonna be. we should go ahead and put
this at the very bottom. - oh, stuff's already about to fall. - no, it's fine. perfect fit. - you got space. - oh yeah. - [mr. beast] chris, it's really close, don't let it touch. - [chandler] dude, it's
literally about to touch. - [mr. beast] wait, you
have two items left? - yeah. they gotta go up top, maybe. - oh gosh, i'm nervous, i'm nervous. this is your last item, chris, a car seat. - this is all for you, tucker. all right, last piece, you ready boys? i got my hands off,
everybody take your hands off and then we'll count to two. yay! look, it worked, yay! - this next challenge
is a little different, we have a ton of money here, as much money as you can
stack in this square, you can keep. but you stack and you stack and you stack and boom it falls, we're like, oh, sorry, you head home. - for real? - yeah. you want five grand, six grand? - how about 10,000. - dude, if you can stack
it up to here, you could. so you're going for three feet or no? - [man] should i try? - it's up to you, man. so far this is $600. - [chris] you wanna have that
counterweight right there. - okay, so we gotta count, 1,400? - [mr. beast] yeah, 14 so far. - 29, that's three grand right there. - [mr. beast] $3,000. - [chris] it is wobbly. - okay, let's stop. oh. - let's think about it, so right now if you quit, you've won. - i think we should keep stacking. - all right, keep stacking it. - 38. two more and you're at four. - okay, this is it right here. this is the last stack. - [mr. beast] 4,400. you might as well keep going. - [chandler] put it
right on top of that one. - 5,000? - go for it. - [chandler] hold on, i got you, man. - oh my god, i'm not touching it. - [chris] don't be scared. - this is it right here. - $5,000. - that's it. - [chandler] you did it. - you taking it? - i'm taking it. - he's taking it.
- i'm taking it. no, chandler! - five grand. - 5,000, baby. subscribe, everybody. - and while you're at it, this video wasn't sponsored, and we literally spent over $100,000. if you could hit that subscribe button, it would mean the world to me. just support the brand in any way. i love you guys. [music] mrbeast6000 [music]