(tranquil ambient music)
- apple charges a $1000 for this. so would you even believe me
if i told you that all of this could be yours for 100s of dollars less? the concept is old, but when we saw the new ergo dual from lg, we questioned our own
choices and just had to know, could this double monitor
plus arm combo pack thing possibly be as good as today's sponsor? karma is a really cool extension. that'll help you save both time and money when shopping online. wanna know more? stay tuned for the end of this video. (upbeat ambient music) before it's even out of the packaging, the lg ergo dual is checking boxes for me left and right, get it? that's a joke. lots of screen real estate, an included double monitor
arm, two identical displays and they better be color matched. good cable management
and usbc power delivery for the odd laptop that might
roll through your workspace. this is the monitors and
all this is just the arm? funny thing, even though
i had never actually encountered one before, bundle
products like this do exist if you go looking for them,
dell and hp for example have a handful of options
ranging from smaller, lower resolution screens,
like this home office bundle all the way up to bigger
higher resolution screens like this one from hp, albeit at a much higher price of, (clears throat)
$1200. it used to be that brand name monitor
arms were like the norm, and you would pay 100s of
dollars for a monitor arm, and that was like what you
did from like kensington, or whatever the case may be. but i always just didn't bother 'cause i was like, that's stupid. it comes with a way to mount it, and if i need it up higher, i'll put it on a book or something. like i was always that guy. and so i've only ever really like seen ali express grade monitor arms. this is definitely built
a little bit better. like you could kill a
man with it, you know? - [david] watch the monitor. - you could get really like nunchucks. - [david] watch out, man,
you're gonna hurt yourself. - don't take away my fun. back to business. the clamp down here works
like most monitoring clamps, meaning that you'll need
a fair bit of overhang on both the top and bottom of your desk in order to get it seated properly. one thing that's kind of cool is it can actually open up wide enough to accommodate a desk this thick. who has a desk like that? anyway, the point is, if you
have any sort of support bar or say for example, a little
io thing like this one, (clears throat) you might struggle to find
enough clearance down there. you know what, funnily enough, this has kind of a metal housing
thing on the bottom of it that is possibly strong enough that i could actually open
this up a little wider and clamp right to it. but then i wouldn't be
able to open this anymore. so that is not actually a solution. yeah, i'm gonna go ahead and put it here. okay, this is interesting, it's non-trivial but if
you wanted to attach this to a third party monitor,
you technically could, you would just unclip this plastic thing, probably remove this somehow
and then go right through, see that, these bolt holes and just screw this plate
into your other monitor. not the best job of future
proofing that i've ever seen, but it's better than nothing. the rest of it's really cool though. even though it ships
with 27 inch displays, you can see that it's actually adjustable. you've got this little
thingy-maboober right here that'll tell you where to position it. goes for both vertical and
horizontal configurations. pretty cool. and then like i mentioned, vertical and horizontal configurations, it either goes on this way
or this way, and it's keyed so that you can't accidentally
put it on upside down. it'll prevent it from
going on all the way. what is this? there's a bar. - [nicholas] it's like a control bar, so you can move it around. - oh, that's cool. get in there. that's cool. this bar serves two functions, one, is it allows you to move the completed assembly around with ease and two, it allows you to
play machine gunner simulator. (simulates gunshots) once you're done, the monitors pop on a
little something like this, pretty standard, fair. there you go. here david, i'll get you, whoo, watch out for your ltt store water bottle while you're swinging that around. don't wanna knock that over. not that it isn't perfectly durable, not to mention well insulated
for hotter cold beverages. lttstore.com (indistinct) [music] don't, don't, don't, don't. [music]
- (indistinct) - not bad. supports the weight just fine,
which i should hope it would, they come in the same box. there's a little bit of adjustment here just in case your desk
isn't level or whatever, which is a thing by the way. so having a little bit of
adjustment this way is good. you can tilt it. there you go. oh, you can't tilt it up very much. so if you like to have your monitors low and kind of look down at them, it might not be the best for
that, but you can tilt it down which would be really useful
for a stacked configuration. hmm, okay. ploof had some notes about how
it can be a little bit tricky to get it far enough away from you, right? so i could see that, i could see that being a bit of an issue. you kind of can't, you'd have
to have it off to the side which i guess isn't the end of the world because the monitors are. - oh!
- whoop. the monitors are so big that it's gonna cover up the stand anyway, but it's definitely
something to be aware of as you set it up,
(chuckles) you don't want this
like kind of over here, if you want it dead center
and deep on your desk, like that is probably how i'd want it. something to note at
this point in the game is that while you can
swap between side by side, center, portrait or pin it pretty easily, if you wanna switch to a
stacked layout after the fact, one on top of the other, it's gonna take a fair bit more work. you pretty much have
to take everything off except the clamp to the
desk, rotate the bar and then put it back 90 degrees
off and put the monitors on. it's not hard, it just does take some time and that's something
you should be aware of. (grunts) i got it. i got it! don't help me. did they think to provide a longer dp? no, not really. what is this guy though? this has gotta be something to do with cable management for this. (upbeat ambient music) not bad, right? like the ltt store cable ties. i could have used these
ones but i used these ones. and this gives us tons of options. like i already mentioned that it's got usbc input
with power delivery. so long as your laptop doesn't
need more than 65 watts, it's a single type c cable for
charging and display output, but this is even better. each monitor has an htmi input but you're gonna wanna use display port because they've got display
port inputs and outputs so we can actually daisy
chain them together as long as we have a gpu that
supports that functionality, meaning that it's just
one cable either way to run both of these displays. you can see here, i
didn't leave enough slack to plug the power into this display when i have it twisted around like this. so i'm gonna just fix that. you gonna wanna make sure
you account for that, however, you've got it configured. you can leave a little bit
more slack than i have, i went pretty tight, but
i leave that up to you. these are cool, they
include these extensions for the dc power plugs for the monitors. so if you're using them without this arm, they're the right length, and then if you're
using them with the arm, you've got extra to route through all the
cable management nonsense. okay. i think it's turning on now. here we go. menu. we got nipple control here. whoop. all the usual, oh, all the very basic, basic
settings you might expect. and there's one more thing that
we might have to configure. you actually have to turn
on the display port output. otherwise it no-worky. that's awesome. man, if we had a wireless
keyboard and mouse, like show me the wires, right? that's pretty cool. i'm gonna do my favorite test. - [nicholas] it's not perfect, but it's pretty close.
- hold on, let me do my favorite test. i'm gonna take a white window. oh my god. - [david] wrong way. - gosh, darn it.
(chuckles) i'm gonna take a white window. that's pretty good. like, you know when
you've got two monitors that are supposedly the same and one of them's blue
and one of them's yellow, like right out of the box, you
gotta get where i am though 'cause when you're looking
at it from a different angle, yeah, you gotta see them both head on. it's not bad, not perfect, but not bad. by this point in the video though, you guys have probably realized
that this is my first time hands on with the ergo dual. so why don't we hear from the person who has actually spent the last
few weeks daily driving it, trying out some of the
different configurations and writing this to me. i've got some ploof's spots here. ooh handwritten, because, oh, i see, we took away your monitors. deer linus, i think the ergo dual. - [ploof] would be a fine addition to most home or work offices. side by side wasn't for me, i got some neck strain
looking from side to side, even when i angled them in a little bit. but the other options were pretty good. center portrait is my preference at work and i use the same layout at home. it's a bit tough to get the screens perfectly flush with one another and getting the displays
recessed far enough can take some forethought depending on how low or
how high you want them. once you're finished shooting,
return them to my desk so they can become a
permanent fixture there. - you know, i didn't hear the magic word. - [nicholas] please. - all right. but first, let's see how it handles gaming ladies and gentlemen. ooh, headshot, headshot, headshot! oh god, i'm reloading. headshot! oh, shoot. i know what you're thinking,
it's not made for this linus, but it's also not entirely unreasonable for a casual video editor who might benefit from a setup like this to maybe wanna play some
games in their spare time. and 75 hertz is better than 60, even if it's not up there with the best gaming monitors today, and not exactly cheap, it's
affordable, but not cheap. so no excuses. image quality then in
less action oriented games is i would describe as, fine. but as soon as you fire
up something faster paced, i don't even need to measure
the pixel response times to know that they're a little bit rough. it also doesn't get very bright. it's listed at 350 lumens, but in the more accurate cinema mode, it only saw 320 and 270
between the two of them. color accuracy isn't too bad
with our brighter monitor hitting an average delta e of 2.6, and the dimer unit hitting 3.4 with both of them having more trouble with yellows and greens
than anything else, and while they're not perfectly
matched outta the box, i'd say they're close enough to the point where an amateur photographer
could use either of them to touch up their photos
before posting to instagram. the hdr is hd aren't,
because it's only 350 nits, even if you get everything
they advertise on the box. so considering how well
windows handles hdr, you might as well just
leave it turned off. overall, not bad, but before
you hit the buy button, which we will have linked down below, there are a few things we
are not particularly fond of. it is nice that lg used standard
100 millimeter vesa holes in those plates that go into
the back of the monitors, but with all the extra plastic on there, it's not especially convenient
to mount a new monitor to it. and if you wanted to replace
these with something new, you have to consider that
whoever your buyer is, better have a dual
monitor arm of their own because they don't come with any out of the box normal stands
that you can include with them. another thing is that according to one solitary review that
we found on adorama, it does not support dual
screens on macos 12 or 11. so i guess we should test that. horst. we need some horsepower. plug it on.
- okay. and then i.
- you got a notification. - oh, look at that. yes. all right, so if we.
- lies! - oh, it's sideways,
hold on, let me fix that. - but did it work?
- well. - or wait, hold on. is this right? what is this? oh, it's the ghost of macs past? - well, there's a, here, watch this. (chuckles) - uh-huh. is this right? - if you like, i mean, if you like to, if you like double vision. - oh. oh, that's a bummer. why would it behave like that? - so apparently macos doesn't support mst. - really, after all this time? oh.
- yeah. i mean you can do it if it
was a thunderbolt screen, it would be great. it'd be nice to have a thunderbolt screen. but.
- oh. - yeah. so, we have another usbc cable? 'cause you could just plug
it into the other one. - well, yeah, but that's, oh my god. okay, all right, thank you. bye bye. so if you're a mac user, this might not be the
product for you and at $800, it might also not be for you
if you don't like the price or you want more versatility
in your monitor arms or whatever the case may be. and the good news is that
while we like this package and think it actually a ton of sense, there are other options. for gamers for example, you could just as easily
buy a gaming display and then one other cheaper one that you don't care about as much, plus a more versatile arm
or even no arm at all. this huanuo dual stand, 70 bucks on sale at the time of filming. four and a half stars with 10,000 ratings, though, it should be noted, it only, it holds up
to 14.3 pounds per arm, compared to 20 on this one. make sure you get subscribed by the way because we're gonna be
doing a whole roundup of cheap monitor arms off
of like amazon and stuff that you will not want to miss. just like you don't
wanna miss our sponsor, karma. karma is a free app and browser extension that uses sophisticated ai and machine learning technology
to produce a seamless and smart shopping experience. karma works with over 50,000 stores. so whether you're getting
new computer parts or buying your spouse a gift, you can ensure that you are
making the right choices at the right time while you shop online. for me, not a huge shopper, so finding deals can be
a little time consuming and that's what makes karma crazy useful. it scans the web for coupons and applies them at checkout automatically so you don't have to, meaning you will get the best
coupon code or price drop. you can create shopping lists, which allow you to organize your purchases and shop more mindfully, while also receiving
real time notification when your favorite products go on sale or come back in stock making
sale fomo a thing of the past. plus you can earn real cash from select retailers
when you shop using karma. so click the link in the description box to sign up with karma for free and start shopping smartly today. (upbeat ambient music)
thanks for watching everyone. have you found a solid cheap monitor arm that you think crushes the competition? let us know in the comments and we will try to to check
it out in that upcoming video.