- this is the world's
most powerful laptop. now it may not be six inches thick and need a portable
nuclear reactor to run. however inside this chassis we have a full rtx 3080 laptop gpu. this is all thanks to
nvidia who were very kind not only sponsor this video but also provide us with
an early sample of this, the msi gs66 stealth. now, of course, when you look at what they had last generation with the rtx 20 series of laptops, they were
very powerful, right? they had some serious graphics horsepower in fairly thin and lightweight packages. am i, am i not? (drilling) do i have, did i forget how to screw? so inside we have a lot of cooling. okay, so we have one, two,
three, four, five, six heat pipes keeping our rtx 3080 cool. now, one of the things
to keep in mind is that with the rtx 30 series of
laptop gpus they're of course a huge jump over the last generation. so we're seeing those same kind of gains not only for traditional games but also games that take
advantage of ray tracing. so essentially you're just
getting a ton more performance. but on top of that the
initial configurations are slightly different. if you're familiar with
the big chungus itself, the rtx 3080 on the desktop side while it is an incredibly powerful gpu, it's also, i don't know
how to put this, big like big with three gs. now to get all of this power into a laptop what nvidia opted to do is slightly change up their configurations. so if you look at the raw performance and the specs of this laptop gpu, you'll see that it's actually
fairly similar to something like the desktop rtx 3070,
which makes sense considering that a laptop has to not only be thin and last more than 15
seconds on a battery. there's a whole lot of
heat that needs to be moved out of the way because
this laptop, i mean, it's got a 1440p 240hz panel. that's a lot. so of course there are tons
of features i wanna try and test and benchmarks
and all that kind of stuff. but the most important thing
here is how does it game? it's almost like i'm
testing a gaming laptop or something right now. so before we go into max-q
and all that kind of stuff let's just load up a couple of games and see how it actually performs. oh, i need a mouse. i need to get a mouse. where's my mouse, is that my mouse? yay, my mouse, look at that. now fortnite might not be
the first game you think of when you think the
world's most powerful laptop. however they're actually
a couple of features that do make it a good sort of test case. not only does it support ray
tracing, which is important because the ray tracing
cores are much more powerful on this laptop than previous generations but also it has very
good support for dlss. now that is something which
can make a big difference to your frame rate while
still allowing you to have a ton of image
quality and importantly a ton of performance. i will say this screen on the
gs66 is certainly far better than pretty much any laptop
display i've ever used. not only is it a full 1440p resolution but importantly it supports nvidia g-sync. oh man! but it also runs a full
240 frames per second. is that enough to keep me
from dying in fortnite? no, no, it is not, but at
least the laptop supports me. now because this is not final software and certainly not final hardware, it's hard to judge it too harshly. i will say the fan noise
is a little bit louder than i would personally like, you can turn it on silent
mode if you'd like. but there's a lot of power in this laptop. part of that is because
this is taking advantage of nvidia's max-q technology. now max-q's a little bit
of a marketing catchall for a lot of individual different things. so things like optimizing not only of course the gpu and the fan curves
and all the cooling apparatus but also like even down to like the pcb and the individual chips on board. there's a lot that goes into getting that max-q certification. and of course every max-q laptop can be designed differently. but why don't we play a
game that's not fortnite? i think that's a good idea. there are so many wide varieties of games that are not fortnite that i could be playing right now such as cyberpunk. which actually to be
fair is a legitimately really good benchmark because the thing with cyberpunk, that is a demanding game. so i've not tried playing cyberpunk at all on this system yet. so i'm actually curious to see, well it immediately throws me
to high and ultra ray tracing. so well, cyberpunk believes in me. i don't know if i believe in myself. all right, i mean, everything's
on, context, shadows, high, high, ultra, ultra,
ultra, high, high, high, high, i mean, pretty much everything's on. i will leave dlss on of
course, but yeah, okay, cool. well, let's see how this actually looks. i'm sure you've seen all
the rtx on memes at this point but it does do a lot to
ground you in the immersion of a game especially when
you're gaming on a laptop. i mean, just look at the reflection here on the ground, right? you can see how it sort
of naturally blooms as sort of, it's slightly
damp but we walk over to a little bit more of a puddle and then you get those
much sharper reflections of the screen all the way up here. i mean, it just does a lot
to ground you in a game and while yes not
everything takes advantage of ray tracing right now. you're also getting all
the additional performance of the rtx 30 series
first even like, you know, non ray traced games. there are lots of marketing demos showing you ridiculous unreasonable things like running five chrome
tabs at the same time, which is clearly impossible
by the laws of physics. however, what we can do is my own patented ultra super tasking demo that i definitely have created completely by myself with no help from anyone. so start out with we have a
copy of cold war running, right? so we are running here. it is full screen, 1080p 60. so actually i will show
you the settings just so you can see it's all
running at the same time, full screen 60p 1080p. and then we also have pretty
much all settings on high. we even have like ray
tracing on and whatnot. so you can see this
obviously is running well. however, at the same time, i also have a copy of obs running. so i'll go ahead and start recording , will be the same file with streaming. and now we're recording that gameplay as well as my webcam feed at
a smooth 60 frames per second. now this is mostly thanks to
that nvenc encoding built into the gpu so they can
close look right down here. we're only using about 2% of
the cpu, which is impressive because it really enables
us to not only stream but also game at the same time. and we're really not
losing that performance. however, who just games
and streams on a laptop? that's ridiculous. so let's also fire up a
copy of adobe premiere. yes, i'm going to also
play back some video so you can see, we'll
just play some random clip that we were watching earlier. we're playing back at half resolution but this is also that same 1080p 60. it plays back fine but importantly i'm going to export it at the same time. is this a good idea? probably not. we have a two and a half
minute 1080p export. i'm gonna go ahead and start that and hopefully if my house of cards doesn't completely collapse, there we go. so we're exporting it in
like two minutes or so. - [ken] sorry, what two minute clips? - two minute clips-
- [ken] almost real time? and now i'm gonna switch back
over to cold war and look i'm playing the game at the same time. oh, you know what, let
me go check on my obs. hey look, i'm still recording and i haven't dropped any frames. and then i wanna switch back over to abode premiere and
it is still exporting. this i think is a slightly
ridiculous example of how you can take advantage of something like the
power of the rtx 3080. but the nice thing is we have
all the resources we need. i mean, this gpu has 16 gbs of vram. that's more than the desktop rtx 3080. - [ken] and what's crazy is that was all gpu for the most part. and we probably had cpu
headroom for obs again if you really wanted to. - exactly. so while this might not be
the most practical thing in the world it really does go to show what you can do with this kind
of horsepower in a laptop, which is this thin. so this is pretty clearly the most powerful laptop
i have ever tried. then well, yes, this
specific configuration won't be out for a little while. so definitely be sure to stay tuned if you want more on this stuff because there's a whole
lot more stuff coming soon. but regardless i think it's safe to say this is never going back to nvidia. thanks guys for letting
me borrow your laptop. make sure to check out the
links in the description. you can buy your own 30 series laptop. i mean, you get like a 3060 for
1000 bucks or something but this one's spoken for by me forever. thanks for watching. i'll see you next time
i do some multitasking.