what we're looking at here is actually a year's nit based code blue computer kit original cp/m was written for the 8080 the said 80s is an extension of the 8080. so it runs all of the 8080 code so this is actually running one of the original versions of cp/m exactly as it would have done back in the day, right? so initially, there's a small little little bootloader and we select to boot into cp/m this is now money lead cp/m the specific bios for this is written by a guy called grants earned he done need to face it for this this generic hardware stuff, so fantastic work there, but then the b dose and the the ccp is all original cp/m stuff that's sliding in there so we are back to what a lot of people yc is a familiar command prompt we're at the i i disk command prompt so we can pick up a directory what are the fantastic things about cp/m was there was such a wealth of software there was business software things like wordstar was the first real word processor. that was the killer app for it there was debase the database program so if you if you if he was a business, that's a great reason to use cp/m because you don't actually do your accounts on it and all stuff like that there was also games all sorts of utilities and stuff like that but it was also fairly easy to fight to write your own programs as long as you know a bit upset it assembly code cp/m includes the tools to actually write your assembly program compile it turn it into an executable and they just bud there as your and whatever you need that program to do well, so it's you would use to write your assembly code these et is the assembler and that that will actually create your program from your source code that you voted edie edie edd sorry, i'm gonna get so so many comments about that auto so it's all kids of course a classic adventure game regular views we run zork or a version of zork on the pdp-11 a few weeks. yes i've followed her to 12. y/o, i've got i've got furthered of what he did but it all honesty you but i was played about with it first first of all try to find my way around the the big white house and coming across monsters and stuff i didn't get that much further, but it is exactly the same programming ones on cp/m. there's there's a whole wealth of of tech space adventure games for cp/m which are yeah, which were all fantastic if you like that that kind of thing. there are cp/m emulators online or you could be could download and actually run cp/m on your machine. so although originally cp/m was written for the 8080 subsequently, that means it. well. it runs on these nit. it was also later on ported over to the the 68000 it also runs on the 8086 i ad send pc infrastructure as well as one or two other things i think there's said 8000 and the couple other things as well so yeah, there were quite a few other dodds nit machines eventually the read cp/m. cp/m doesn't know or care about graphics it knows at least to send out something the way i've got this set up at the moment this is just a serial terminal. so all this does is send out serial data but yeah with a suitable graphics card of the suitable bios it will do pretty good graphics as you'll see from this that's absolutely horrible it's ended out all of the pt 100 control codes for the game there a lot being interpreted properly by my avoid requires a graphics card okay, so you've got a different way of looking at it out of the rc 2014 comes the war s key data which i've put into a total web you later on a unix machine so it's it's displayed exactly what it should be displayed as opposed to what the quality pi's displayed so got ourselves a little game here if i play one player game let's see how we do all this all the little c characters that's worried about it so it was like a familiar layout to me i'm sure they didn't steal this idea for any any arcade machines go grab a power pill would go to eat some monsters all the fun of joys of earth ascii archives grape yahoo so what we got here then this is one of the biggest selling machines that read cp/m. it's the the illustrated pcw 1512 yeah, very popular in the uk market. i don't know that he done so great outside of the uk it was sold effectively as a word processor, but it said ip base they bundled it with cp/m so obviously the guys are edge to edge vote the bios to talk to their their hardware side of things the rest of it is standard cp/m as its booted up one of the things you can see there it's running a few very basic cp/m commands. so it's setting the default directory. it's copied over pip it's copied over set and it's copied over stuff via the shadows is effectively the same kind of thing because you autoexec.bat and stuff like that that people for me at least msdos rolled will will be familiar with so once that's all booted up you can then do similar things like get a directory listing see what's odd. their syntax looks familiar. actually, doesn't it? i mean for those of us used to dos yes. yeah, the syntax is very very familiar it's it's it's almost a combination of dos and a little bit of linux in there as well i'm sure there's be inspiration these be both both directions they are because of the way that cpm work to the fact that it was so popular that's why microsoft ms-dos was a cloud to look just like it it's a bunch of smaller learning curve to go up to ms-dos than what it is to something completely different so, sometimes he floppies wood dies he often would make backup copies let's try this one sounds more hopeful and so there was this game called lander which became the full game's arch