so you're stuck in a dungeon with a 20-sided die 
and a dragon is keeping you in the dungeon and   the dragon will only let you out if you 
can roll a particular total on the dice.   now you get to choose what the total is, so 
please could you choose me a number that's   bigger than 20. 
- (brady: uh all right, how about 42?)
- 42,  good number okay so then your challenge is   to roll the die and try to get 42. if 
you hit 42 you win, you get to leave the   dungeon; if you don't hit 42 then you get 
kept in the dungeon with the dragon forever.   umm so let's give it a go!
- (i get one go?)
- one go.
- (all right let's let's see how we do, all right. here)   (we go first roll)
- that's 5. okay it's a 
good start, you haven't gone past 42 yet. 16 - that's also pretty good, 21 we're halfway.
- (another 5 and 16 to be good)
- be good wouldn't it? 12. so now what do you want to win here?
- (what are we on? 21...33.)
- i think you need another   9 to be home. 
- (9 more, okay.)
- of course smaller than 9 would be okay.
- (yeah all right. oh 6!)  6 so we're still still playing. all right, 3 to go.
- (come on a 3, lucky 3. come on! ah 11) (i've busted past it.)
- yeah past 42. it's a bit like 
that game where you have to get to 21 without   going over 42. so unfortunately the dragon sees 
that you've gone past 42 and it's it's game over. but i think 42 was quite a good pick because 
you had lots of lots of outs along the way   you didn't you didn't go out too quickly and 
there were lots of possibilities along the way. um i think the natural question is, what's the 
best number that you could have picked? more   than 20 but the best number, the one that's 
most likely to come up when you roll the die. it's not even obvious that there is such a number 
i suppose, maybe they're all equally good. maybe it   doesn't matter so you should just pick 42. what 
do you think about that?
-  (i think) (if if such a number exists it has to be 40 or less.)
- 40 or less, okay, so you want it so that   you could get it in two rolls.
- (yeah but- and and it 
feels like the highest it could be is double the) (number otherwise it feels like it just becomes 
arbitrary after you get to double the highest number.)  yeah so that's that's the right intuition; 
that to start off with the the effects of   finite size of the die matter really quite a lot 
and then in the long run things even out. and we   can even be a bit precise about how things even 
out. so eventually you're getting large numbers - you   picked a target number that was a billion and 
three or something. so after a while you're   rolling and rolling and i guess you're still alive 
because you haven't got to a billion and three yet.   the die has an average; it has an average number 
that it that it rolls on average which over the   long run as you're trying to get to a billion 
that's kind of what your experience is going to   be, that the die has an average. which means 
that you hit every number every so often that   the probability that any particular number comes 
up is one in the average length of skips that   you take when you roll. the average of a 20-sided 
die is 10 and a half i think. so for a very large   number like a billion or something your odds 
of seeing that particular number, one billion   and three, about one in ten and a half. which is that 
weird mix of being an approximation while also a   weirdly precise number, which is not great odds. 
question - can you do better than that by picking   a small number? my answer is yes you can. so the 
odds that you see 100 - i'm gonna write p for   probability and 100 for the probability that you 
see the number 100 - that's like you chose a three   digit number p100 for the target. well in order to 
see 100 think about what the previous number was,   and maybe you saw 99 and then you rolled a 1
or maybe you saw 98 and then you rolled a 2; or   maybe you saw a 97 and then you rolled a 3 and 
so on and so on and so on. or maybe you saw 80   and you rolled 20. so there's this sum
you can do to relate this back to the previous   numbers, this is a example of something called 
a recurrence relation where i don't know the   number that i'm looking for straight away but i 
can work it out in terms of smaller problems to   break down the problem into these smaller parts. 
there's a bit of work to do here if i want p100,   it's like i have to keep working backwards through 
all these previous numbers. for numbers less than   20 there's also a chance that you just roll it 
straight away, that there wasn't any previous roll   at all you just got straight in there and rolled it. 
- (but you didn't allow that)
- i think that's- i   think it's a more fun game if you have to pick a 
number more than 20. none of this cheeky roll it   straight away on the die, that's why i made you 
pick a number bigger than 20. armed with that   recursion relation you can get a computer to work 
out the probabilities that different numbers come   up. and the graph is kind of interesting. so the 
graph looks like this; the probability that you   see certain total of 1 is- well something because you 
might roll it straight away. the probability that   you see 2 is a little bit larger because you 
might roll it straight away or you might roll 1 twice to get your 2. and then in a similar manner 
the probabilities get larger and larger up to   20 which is the last number which benefits from 
this effect that you could just roll it straight   away. 21 isn't so fortunate; 21 you have to make 
it in two rolls. and actually it's quite likely that   you blow past 21 on this 20-sided die. the probability 
that you hit 21 is down here somewhere.
- (oh really low) it's a lot lower. somewhere in between the 
probabilities for 1 and 20 on the graph. but   then things get a little bit better for a brief 
window. the next bit of the graph looks like this   with a sort of arch shape, and at 40 there's a 
kink in the graph and then it levels off. and at   60 it smooths out even more and there's another 
wobble in the graph and it flattens out towards   this kind of long-term probability of 1 in 
10 and a half. but the absolute best point is   like you said brady, between 20 and 40 there's 
some maximum on this on this graph. it turns out   that the number 34 is the best total that you 
could give to the dragon - and i just know that   because i've done the calculations and checked 
the probabilities that different numbers come   up. if you want to check it you could roll the die 
quite a lot and see which different totals come   up; i claim the number 34 comes up more than any 
other number bigger than 20. 
- (did i hit 34? 21,) (33-)
- oh 33 is pretty close! so around 34 these 
numbers are all pretty likely to come up, yeah   so a number around 33 to 35. if i let you pick 
a couple of numbers that are near each other, some   sort of little interval maybe, here's the target 
i'm aiming for plus or minus 2 then centering   it on 34 is still a good idea but it gets much 
more likely if i give you a little interval that   you could hit. 
- (if you'd allowed any number though, 
20 is the one to pick?)
- uh yes. any number, any number   at all, 20 is the most likely to want to come up 
on on sums. just between 1 and 20 things get more   and more likely as you have more and more ways to 
make those numbers, plus also the bonus of maybe   rolling them in one and just getting it straight 
away on that die. so i guess the the kind of   next best after 20 is really likely to come 
up 34 is the next most likely. it's a bit of a   random number, 34, somewhere between 20 and 40. 
i suppose the extension to this question is,   what happens if i get stuck in a different 
dungeon with a larger dragon who owns a larger   die with more sides on it so it goes to a bigger number?
- (well the question- the question i've got)  (before you answer that question, is what if it's- 
what if the dragon has the most common die that) (most people have? a 6-sided die?)
- yeah a 6-sided die. there's a very similar picture, a maximum   between 6 and 12 that you should pick as a number 
that's going to come up in your running total when   you're on that six-sided die in the dungeon of the dragon. 
- (but you want a bigger die, bigger than 20?)   yeah so there's this kind of smooth pattern that 
we get with these dots on the graph which gets   smoother and smoother the more dots that you have. 
to get more dots i need more faces on the die. and   the calculations get harder - so just in case you're 
trapped in a dungeon with a very large die, it'd   be good to have a rule of thumb or some sort of 
heuristic about where this is in terms of i don't   know if this is-
- (a sweet spot?) 
- that sweet spot is 
somewhere between n and 2n. the sweet spot for   where this kind of curve of the graph hits its 
maximum, the best probability that you can pick.   the heuristic or the answer in general to 
leading order is that that peak happens at e   minus 1 times n; where e is the number 2.7.... i guess 
it comes up in problems like this.
- (natural log or whatever?) yeah the basis of natural 
logarithms, but then subtract 1, and multiply   by n. so this is a rule of thumb for where that 
maximum lies for very large n which does give   you about 34 for the dragon in our original 
problem. maybe weird that that's not a whole   number; e is irrational so this is never a whole 
number no matter how big the die is, but this   gives you a good approximation to where the 
maximum of the function is. there's some really   nice continuous versions of this problem where you 
have a die that sort of could roll any number and   it gives us this proper smooth distribution, the 
one that's kind of hiding in between the dots,  sort of correct way to join the dots and have 
this kind of version of the problem where   the dragon wants you to hit some interval 
between some number and some other number. so there's an application of this to evil numbers.
an evil number is one where the decimal expansion   of that number - so if you take your favorite number 
like pi or something 3.14159265 and keep going - and   if you add up the digits, so 3 plus 1 plus 
4 plus 1 plus 5 plus 9 and keep going.   if at some point that equals the number 
666 then you say that your number is evil.   and bad news - pi is evil. the digits add 
up to 666 at some point. 
- (at some point.) you get 666; pi is evil. and there's 
some very similar mathematics you can   run to talk about the probabilities 
that you hit any particular target.   666 is quite a large number so we're in that 
realm of long-term probabilities. and because the   digits could be 1 or 2 or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9; 
the average for what the digits   could be - i guess i'm ignoring zero but zeros don't 
really get you anywhere closer to your rolling   total they just delay the inevitable - the average 
that you get when you actually make progress on   your total is this which is the number 5 i 
think because that top's 45. because the average   is 5 that means that along the way once the 
numbers are large you're running total hits   roughly every one number in five; it's taking jumps 
of about five each time so it hits roughly every   fifth number. not exactly of course, it's random, but 
it hits roughly every fifth number. which means   that unfortunately 20% of numbers are evil; one 
in five, 20% of them are evil including   things like the square root of 3 or the 
golden ratio turn out to be evil numbers as well.  (not not e though?)
- i don't know- i don't know if 
e is evil. we could try and work it out but   we'd need quite a lot of digits of of e - this keeps 
you busy on a rainy day, you need a lot of decimal   digits, i suppose about 100 of them, in order to add 
them up and then check oh did you hit exactly 666   or not on your way up. so it's just like the die 
rolling problem if you like but with a 9-sided   die. i don't know how to make a 9-sided die but 
perhaps that's what the what the digits are doing.   (i like that, i like that pi's evil)
- we've had a different definition of evil numbers on numberphile before to do with prime numbers but this is 
another evil number definition. i've seen a third   one as well so there's another way that people 
refer to evil numbers to do with their   binary expansion as well, but i think that's one 
for a different numberphile video to do. 
- (you chose) (666 because of the- you know the biblical famous 
biblical reference. i guess you could come up with)  (any cool number. like 42- and you could call that a hitchhiker number. is)  (is pi a hitchhiker number? does it hit 42? and things like that)
- well let's see, let's do the graph for-   let's do the graph for adding up numbers up to 
9 because 42 is somewhere in between multiple   rules of nine so maybe it's near a maximum 
of one of those. maybe it's more likely to   come up than 666 in our digits. let's do the 
graph i suppose, calculate some probabilities. footnote: i maybe didn't mean to have the 3
plus at the start, maybe even numbers just use   the decimal digits i can't remember. in my 
defense all of this is made up anyway, none   of this really- none of this really matters.
- (it's not really evil)
- it's not really evil either way.   (you can't call pi evil, everyone loves pi)
- the fractional part 
of pi is definitely evil; maybe the 3 saves it.   thanks to brilliant for supporting this video. 
now you probably know all about brilliant by   now, makers of these fantastic courses and 
quizzes covering math, logic, data science,  neural networks, computer programming - all sorts 
of stuff. i've shown you examples like this   before but i don't think i've ever mentioned how 
great they are on your phone or handheld devices.  the seamless design, all the interactive material, it's 
an absolute delight. smooth, great to look at. so you   can be building your skills and knowledge on a 
train, or on the bus to work, just sitting around   on the sofa. now look i'll be honest i can't be 
absolutely sure all the people in this footage   are doing brilliant courses but i like to think 
that guy is, and they definitely all should be   on brilliant. there's so much great stuff on 
there, they're always adding more material as   well; this could be the start of your path to a 
new career or maybe just a way to sharpen your   mind. go to brilliant.org/numberphile to start a 
free 30-day trial and you'll get 20% off an annual  plan. check out the link in the video description. 
yeah they must be looking at brilliant  ...lots of things- it's a beastly prime. 
okay so a beastly prime is one that has   666 in it. now this one has it in a very 
special place, right in the middle right. a beastly prime is one that has 666 so for 
example another beastly prime is this one   6661; 26669 is a beastly 
prime, there's a whole bunch of these as well.