- before you buy an iphone 13, there are a few things that i think are really worth considering. so the apple event just wrapped up, where they announced a ton of new products including the iphone 13
mini, the regular 13, the pro, the pro max chungs edition, as well as stuff like the new
ipads and the apple watches. but i think the decision
between which iphone, if you are considering
upgrading to the 13 this year, is way easier to make than
it's been in previous years. okay, so let's start out
with what's actually new with the iphone 13. so there's some new colors. so specifically there's red,
black, blue, gray, and sunrise, which i think is the
replacement for like rose gold. so the camera bump has
been slightly changed. so unlike the 12 mini, which
has the vertical cameras, it has them as like a horizontal thing. and that's because you
now have upgraded module. not only with the main camera, but also you have sensor shift, which was originally from the 12 pro max. we'll talk about the camera stuff later. there also are some
other aesthetic changes on the front of the display. so the notch across the
entire iphone 13 range has now been shrunken. now, look, until i see this in person, i will reserve judgment. it looks very similar to me. you'll find those some more on the mini, where it was basically like two thirds at the top of the display, but hey, you know what? a smaller notch is better, even though of course,
no notch would be best. the display has also been upgraded. so it's about 28% brighter. so you're looking at about
800 nits in standard usage and up to 1,200 nits for peak brightness. very nice. not really a huge concern, but what you don't get on
the display is pro motions. skipping ahead a little bit, the iphone 13 pro and pro max this year finally get high refresh rate displays at a smooth 120 frames per second. so one of the big things
is that it does have an apple a15 bionic chip. surprise, surprise. after the a14 comes the a15. it has the same general layout. you have two high-performance cores, four low performance
cores or efficiency cores, and you have a four core gpu. however, again, unlike last year where, you know, the pro
and the regular iphones had the same 60 hertz
display and the same specs, the pro models actually have
slightly more powerful gpu's. so on the iphone pro as well as pro max, this year you're getting a five core gpu as opposed to the four core
on the standard iphone 13. they've always had the exact same chip across all the iphones, right? so if you have an a15,
it is the exact same as an a14 or a13. but this year, if you
purchase the standard iphone 13 mini or the standard iphone 13, you are getting a less
performance chip than on the pro. but that being said, they didn't really make
it seem like the a15 was a huge jump anyway. so traditionally they look at, you know, the a15 compared to last
generation and be like, oh, it's 713% faster. well, the quotes that i got here were the a15 is the fastest
cpu in any smartphone, which is not a surprise
because the a14 was. but they say it's 50%
better than the competition on the cpu side, and 30%
faster on the gpu side on the four core. i can believe those numbers. but what i also believe
is that it's probably, if you compared it to the
last generation iphone, not as huge of a leap. the iphone 13 cameras
have also been improved, but yet again, they've
been improved somewhat. and the pro has been improved a lot more. the main wide angle
camera on the iphone 13 seems to be very similar to
what we got on the 12 pro max. so it is a larger sensor. it lets in about 47% more light. it also does have the
sensor shift stabilization. all great upgrades, but the pro just has even bigger sensors
with even better specs. same thing goes for the ultra wide. so the ultra wide has
been improved on the 13, but it's been improved a
whole lot more on the 13 pro. kinda getting the trend here? there are other improvements. so they showed off what
was called cinematic mode, which is a little bit into the weeds. but essentially what it allows you to do is to cleanly rack focus between subjects. so ken, i'm gonna go throw
something on the fly at you. can you rack focus the camera? so here, i'm right here. oh, look, ken just rack
focused the camera. oh, look, he racked focused it back. look at that amazing real world example of what cameras are like. well, in some small way,
you'll be able to do that on the iphone. - [ken] the iphone is
apparently smarter than me because i racked to the thing behind you. (reviewer laughs) - okay, look, so that's actually
one of the big differences. so unlike a traditional
camera that we're using here, where ken is using his
hands to control it, this is actually an automatic process. so the iphone when
you're in cinematic mode, will do its best to determine like, oh, it sees this person and it, you know, i turn and it will
change focus or whatever. you can still mainly select it. it's a cool feature, but again, there's this better
cinematic mode on the pro. i feel like a broken record here. everything is better on the pro this year. - [ken] everything is funnier
when you're not in focus. - am i still out of focus? focus the camera, ken. i'm gonna replace you
with an iphone 13 pro max. - [ken] does that mean i get to keep it? - no! so outside of that, probably
the biggest upgrade honestly, on the iphone 13, is
gonna be battery life. the iphone 12 mini, as
much as i love this- - terrible.
- adorable little phone. - [ken] terrible. - had let's say less than
spectacular the battery life. and so with the 13, as
well as the 13 mini, you're getting more battery life. so the mini is getting an hour
and a half more battery life, and the standard iphone 13 is getting two and a half more hours of battery life. do you want to guess
what i'm about to say? go guess what? the pro's also have better battery life, but it's improved by more. oh, austin beating the
dead horse yet again. now the one thing i will say is that thankfully across the
entire iphone range this year, the prices have remained the same. so it's 699 for the mini, 799
for the standard iphone 13. and at that price, they've actually now
given you more storage. so before, the baseballs
came was 64 gigs of storage, now it defaults to 128 gigs. so essentially you're getting
a roughly $50 price cut for the 128 gig iphone 13, which is great. i'm not gonna say it, but you know what i've about to say. - the pro's better?
- yeah, the pro's better. yes. thank you. thank you, matt for
completing that sentence. okay, this video is
sponsored by cleanmymac x. no matter how shiny your
apple product might seem, you still need to keep
it running smoothly. and that's where cleanmymac x comes in. it's an in one package that does a lot. the most popular feature is smart scan, which allows you to scan
for outdated junk files your system no longer needs
to help free up space. cleanmymac x is more than
just a mac cleaner though. while it helps to build a
virtual map of your mac storage, it also runs a quick malware check and can quickly allow
you to optimize your mac by showing you the processes
that are draining performance that you might not even realize are there. it also helps to stay on top
of which apps have permissions like camera and microphone access, and allows you to quickly uninstall anything you don't need anymore. even if you're moving
to an apple silicon mac, cleanmymac x has you covered as it fully supports the new m1. so definitely be sure to
go check out cleanmymac x at the link in the description, and huge shout out to them for sponsoring this portion of the video. so now that we've gone over what's upgraded on the iphone 13, which is a reasonable amount, but it's very much like an s malia, right? you know, the iphone 6 to 6s,
it looks basically the same. there's some tweaks here,
the camera, the battery but it's very much similar. the pro is a much more
significant step forward. so first of all, they've got four colors. there's graphite, gold,
silver, and the light blue, they call sierra blue,
which i personally think looks very nice. it's not like pro, like i
feel like the pro colors have always been like it's
titanium, alloy, aluminum, or i don't know, whatever. - [matt] those are three different- - i know they're three
different things, okay? this is not a very pro color,
but i'm absolutely about it. it has a similar design to last year, although i will say on the standard pro, the camera modules look
absolutely chalk tastic. like, i tweeted this earlier, it's like, you're buying a camera and an iphone comes with it. like, this is absolutely ridiculous. but that being said, guess what? larger cameras mean that they're better, and especially they're
better than the iphone 13. okay, so one of the big
upgrades is on the screen side. so now they do have a brighter
display again this year, but you also have, like i was saying, that pro motion that can go
all the way from 10 hertz up to 120 hertz. although to be fair, the
pro motion is on both the pro and the pro max. so unlike last year where some features were only on like the max, the pro and the pro max
are essentially identical except for the size of the batteries and the sizes of the
screens, which is very nice. let's talk a little about why the 13 pro i think really deserves consideration if you're gonna be upgrading this year, which are the cameras. all the cameras are a major step forward. so first of all, on the telephoto side, something that you're not
going to see on the iphone 13, we now have a 3x telephoto, which is a roughly 77 mil equivalent. that is a big jump. last year it was like,
they went from two to 2.5x. now it's 3x across the board, which is definitely going to be nice. i know ken specifically uses it to take a lot of his car photography. the telephoto camera, especially the 3x, to me that's a really nice
kind of zone to live in. on top of that, the wide angle camera is the largest sensor they've ever had. frickin sweet. awesome. i'm all about it. but you know what one
of the bigger upgrades i think a lot of people are going to like, is the ultra wide. so last year, all the
iphone 12 had the same, let's say, not great ultra wide. like it was fine in
like really good light. but other than that, it fell apart.
- it was basically the same as the previous generation one too. - it was rough, right? this time, we have not
only a much wider aperture on that ultra wide a different sensor, but we also have
auto-focus and macro mode. this is something that i believe
the first one i saw do this was one plus. however, this is a big deal. so essentially you can
take your macro phone, or sorry, you can take your
macro mode with the ultra wide, get it right on top of your subject, and get what i think
are some really, really striking looking images. it gives you a lot more
sort of opportunities to not only go from macro
to super ultra wide, to standard with a large
sensor, to telephoto, there's a lot to the camera, and again, the pro and the pro max have the upgrades. the iphone 13 has a regular
slightly improved ultra wide. there's a bunch of other stuff. there's like a bunch of photography modes, which allow you to bake. they're not filters, but
they allow you to bake different like contrast and color. - it gives you-
- profile. - [ken] yeah, it gives you control over your base image basically. - yeah, yeah, so essentially
if you're familiar with like a dslr or something, where you can tweak your picture profile, it seems vaguely similar to that where you can kind of have that baked in while you take the image, as opposed to taking the photo and then trying to edit after the fact. seems cool, and then there's
some big video upgrades. so not only do you have
the cinematic mode, but it has been improved. basically portrait mode for video. they were very quick on
sort of mentioning this, and the actual demo video they showed, it looked a little bit off. this is actually not really a new feature because devices like samsung
has had this for quite a while. generally speaking, portrait
mode works well in photos. i think in video, it's probably
gonna be like 80% there, especially considering that they've very briefly mentioned it. but, hey, it's nice to have. you also have all the focus racking stuff. and for people like us, i think we're really excited
about something called pro res. so a lot of the video that we shoot on our professional cameras is
shot using the pro res codec, which just has a lot more data and is gonna take a lot more space. but that is something
that's gonna be coming to these pro model phones later this year. now, as far as the prices,
they are the exact same. so 999 for the pro, and
a 1,099 for the pro max. they still start with the 128 gig, but you can go all the way up this year to a one terabyte iphone 13 pro, which i actually think
is probably worth it if you're gonna be shooting a lot of like prores and whatnot. and it's $1,600 for the one
terabyte iphone 13 pro max chungas edition, which is-
- i cant wait. (soft music) (phone thuds) - is this your way of asking for an iphone 13 pro max
chungas one terabyte edition? - [ken] yes. - so i personally think
if we're just talking about iphones here, that the iphone pro makes a lot more sense. in the past, i've been a
little bit sort of iffy on why the pro deserves pro name, because really it's been like
a slight different design, couple of minor tweaks, and that's it. this year though, there's
some real differentiation, especially if you're looking
at these standard size iphone 13 and pro, which
are the exact same size and physical dimensions primarily. for $200 more, you're
getting a far better display, you're getting a majorly
improved camera setup. these phones have really
earned the pro name in a way that makes the iphone
13 and the mini look weak. they look like very minor upgrades, whereas the pros have gotten all of the good, fun, shiny toys. speaking of shiny toys,
i think one of the things that i was most excited for
beyond just purely the iphone, was the new ipad mini. they finally redesigned the ipad mini for what certainly feels
like the first time in a very, very long time. now i know a lot of people might not be a huge fan of the mini. but those who are, i
think are going to really love this upgrade. it basically is a shrunken down ipad pro. so you have that same design language, you have a number of colors, including some stuff like purple and gold and pink and whatnot, but importantly, it now fits in the same size form factor. an 8.3 inch liquid retina
true tone 500 nit edition. one thing i do think is a
little bit hard to swallow is i guess the mini price tag. so it is now from $400,
they've upgraded the price to 500 bucks this time. so if you want to get
this new shiny ipad mini, it starts at $500. but what probably is the thing that is gonna excite
more people than that, is the new apple watch series 7. i love apple watches. i have been an apple watch
user since the very beginning. i use an apple watch more
than i use an iphone, right? a lot of times like this
phone kind of sticks around to make sure the apple watch works, because this is such a better smartwatch than anything that's out there. so before the event, there
was a lot of discussion about there would be a
much more kind of like, you know, ipad, iphone 13 style
flat design for the watch. i'm very happy to report
that that was not correct. this looks very similar, which some people were kind
of like complaining on twitter that that's a bad thing. but personally, i have
always liked the look of the apple watch. and now we have a much larger display, and actually a curved display
underneath to sort of match. so it's a 20% larger
screen than the series 6, and a 50% larger than the series 3. you have a 1.7 millimeter border that goes all the way
around, which is 40% thinner. like it's pretty much a
full screen watch face, which i personally think
is a no-brainer, right? i mean, you've got the same size. why would you have any bezzle? if you can just make this
watch as big as possible without actually making the
physical size bigger, why not? we didn't see the other things that were rumored for the event, like the mac books or air
pods or anything like that. but to me, just kinda
putting a little finer point on the entire video, if you are considering upgrading from any iphone to the iphone 13s, strongly consider that pro. yes, you can save a little bit of money by going with the regular iphone 13. and if you really like the smaller size, the mini is still, i think a solid device which is better this year. as much as i've loved the
last year on the mini, these upgrades that
we've seen on the camera and across the iphone 13 have
pretty clearly convinced me to go with the iphone 13 pro. we use the cameras for video all the time. we use it obviously for like social. there's a lot that i can see
as far as value on that phone, and the fact that it is at the same price, and it seems such a comprehensive upgrade, not only makes the iphone 13 look bad, but i've got to give the props. i mean, they'd given
us more of everything. so for a regular s model year, i think it's a very solid upgrade. but what do you think? let me know all about your
vicious hate of apple, tim cook, and iphones
in the comments below. or if you actually like it, i'd
also like to hear from that. and make sure to subscribe and ring-a-ling that ding-a-ling bell for
more questionably timed puns about tim cook and why
you should really buy iphones that are better.