in 1983, toyota came to the united states
for the first time. new united motor manufacturing or nummi, was
a joint venture with general motors. it was the first time toyota would try to
transplant its formidable manufacturing culture outside of japan. they were not sure if they could do it, but
they nailed it. there is a famous american life podcast episode
about the transformation at nummi and i highly recommend it. that was an amazing episode. i hope this video can offer you guys something
new. today, we are going to look at nummi - toyota's
first journey to the west. ## beginnings from 1975 to 1980, the number of cars exported
from japan to the united states grew at about 20% each year. this was because of the great oil shocks of
the 1970s which had sent gas prices to new highs - fueling demand for smaller, more efficient
japanese cars. by 1980, japanese car imports had grown to
be five times higher than what they were in 1970s - selling about 2 million cars for 21%
of the market. meanwhile, the big three american companies
had lost over 20% of their sales from their 1977 peak. by august 1980, over a quarter of a million
people had been laid off from their jobs at those companies. trade tensions rose. that year, the united autoworkers of america
union and ford filed a petition with the ftc. several import quota bills started working
their way through congress. to try and defuse the situation, in 1981 the
reagan administration and the japanese government negotiated and signed the voluntary restraint
agreement. the agreement limited the number of cars exported
to the united states, with a yearly quota assigned to each of the big japanese automakers. this agreement would be renewed for several
years afterwards. ## the choice the voluntary agreement gave the japanese
automakers a choice. either accept capped growth in the united
states for the foreseeable future ... or build a us factory. the choice was heavily debated back in japan. building in the us would ease tensions, build
brand recognition, and circumvent future tariffs. but there was also quiet concern. the japanese believed that their advantages
in cars were rooted in their own "japanese-ness". or so to say, hard-working workers, low wages,
lifetime employment, supportive government, and cooperative unions. japan's nikko research issued a report in
1981 concluding: > in general, the quality of american (blue
collar) workers is lower than that of japanese workers in terms of education, ability, turnover
and morale, and this is the biggest obstacle to the transfer of technology from japan negative news about the quality of american-made
goods swirled about. can an american plant produce cars with the
same efficiency and cost as those in japan? ## honda and nissan two of the japanese automakers quickly decided
to go for it. honda had been scouting for an american factory
as early as 1974. they eventually chose to site their first
factory in the rural community of marysville - technically allen township - in ohio. that first factory started with motorcycles
since those are their forte and were also easier to build. later in 1980, they added an automobile car
assembly line. the first cars rolled off the line two years
later. at around the same time in april 1980, nissan
announced a light truck assembly plant in the city of smyrna, tennessee. like with honda, this factory later added
a passenger car line too. ## careful steps with their competitors already coming to the
us, toyota had no choice but to follow. but there was a lot they had to learn. can they work with american suppliers or manage
an american workforce? they judged that the lowest risk approach
would be a joint venture with an american automaker. after a dalliance with ford fell through,
they struck a deal with general motors, america's largest carmaker. why would gm want to work with their most
formidable japanese foe? well, they had a gap in its portfolio they
wanted to fill - small cars - and they saw a possible technology transfer opportunity. nummi was a 50:50 joint venture. gm contributed the facility, marketed the
cars, and critically revealed to toyota their suppliers. toyota invested $100 million and ran the factory. nummi's first ceo was tatsuro toyoda, son
of toyota motor's founder kiichiro toyoda. toyota also contributed 30-50 of their managers
for 3-4 years. gm was allowed to bring in 16 of their own
managers too. since nummi involved two of the world's largest
carmakers, the federal trade administration had to review it for anti-trust issues. ford and chrysler even sued to stop the deal. but in 1984, the ftc approved the jv, limiting
the company's life to 12 years. this sunset clause was later removed in 1993. ## gm-fremont nummi would be built on the remains of the
old gm-fremont plant. the gm-fremont plant first opened in 1963. at its peak in 1978, it employed 6,800. its uaw-represented workforce was known for
labor militancy. it was perhaps the worst performing of the
130 worksites run by gm - already a very badly performing company. workers drank and smoked pot on the line,
frequently struck without authorization, and filed thousands of grievances. workers even put coke bottles inside the door
panels so they rattled during the drive. unexpected absenteeism reached 20% especially
on mondays and fridays. workers recall some days where so few people
showed up that managers would "go right across the street to the bar, grab people out of
there and bring them in". the local union relished their national reputation
for militancy against management. factions inside the union even competed with
each other to see who could sabotage or mess with gm the most. at the time gm closed the fremont assembly
plant in 1982, 5,700 people had been working at the factory. they all lost their jobs. ## labor deal considering these issues, toyota was understandably
unsure about bringing back the old workforce. however, they were not able to wriggle their
way out of it. the uaw had de facto control over the facility. a local official threatened to punch toyota's
union negotiator in the face simply for conveying these concerns. so in september 1983, toyota recognized the
uaw as the sole bargaining agent and agreed that the majority of nummi's people would
be hired from the old gm-fremont workforce. and importantly, toyota agreed that before
laying off workers, the company would take other economic steps including cutting management
bonuses and operating hours. hiring began in may 1984, with applications
going out to the old gm-fremont workforce. people were selected on the basis of their
humility, honesty, group-orientation, listening ability, and communications. the gm-fremont workers were a bit older - average
age 41. a quarter of them were hispanic, 20% were
black, and the vast majority were men. almost all of them had only a high school
education. ## the factory a car in the nummi system goes through the
following production steps. first, the stamping plant. the stamping plant takes these large coils
and sheets of finished metal and feeds them into these large stamping presses. these then stamp out hundreds of car parts
- body panels, enclosures, brackets, and so on. nummi had its own stamping plant, which was
kinda unusual. most stamping plants serve multiple assembly
plants near them. but being on the west coast, nummi is somewhat
isolated. second, we have the body shop. the body shop is where the various metal parts
and pieces are welded together. a nummi car could have up to 3,800 welds. third, we have the paint shop. we have to coat and seal the car's metal body. then we paint it in one of 9 colors using
4 combinations of 2-tone paint. fourth, we have final assembly. the car's body sits on a line 1.3 miles long. workers then add some 2,000 parts onto it
as it makes its way down the line. last and finally, we inspect the car and off
it goes. when it opened, nummi was an average car assembly
plant other than the integrated stamping plant. it was about 10-20% less automated than your
typical gm plant. in part because its compact cars have less
margin, making it harder to justify capital expenditures. ## toyota production system by the 1980s, toyota knew that part of its
success can be attributed to its toyota production system or tps. tps is quite famous and i am not going to
spend a lot of time on it here. however, let us walk through just a little
bit. here are some of the key concepts. cars are made in a just-in-time fashion. parts are produced in small batches, which
are gathered on the line and replaced only when necessary. tps also emphasizes the concept of team work
and individual responsibility. workers on the line are entrusted to flag
errors as they occur rather than to push them down the line for someone else to fix. if a worker on the line cannot fix the problem
themselves in a certain period of time, there are a series of signals they can pull to stop
the line for help. for instance, the famous "andon" cord - actually
a light signal, "andon" is japanese for "paper lantern". you pull it and some music plays, alerting
the group leaders. if the cord is not pulled again within a minute,
the line stops. ## push versus pull tps is quite different from the old gm-fremont
system. that old system was structured around a single
central principle: the line must never stop. stations on the line pushed their work down
to the next station like water pouring down a river, no matter whether those guys were
ready for it or not. since everyone works at different paces, work-in-progress
"pooled" at different spots on the river. in some cases, up to two days worth of inventory. gm-fremont ran this "line never stops" system
because on the surface, stopping the line seems superficially expensive - about $15,000
for each minute. but as it turns out, it costs the company
far more to keep pushing things down the line when those things are going wrong. someone on the line notices an error on the
line, judges it too insignificant to stop the line, and pushes it down the line anyway. but then that error compounds on top of others
like a ball of poop rolling down a poop mountain, until in the end we have this massive poo-poo
ball rolling through the final car inspection phase. this would require substantial rework, often
by the most highly paid and experienced workers. tps re-arranged the work progress by eliminating
these pools of standing inventory and implementing a system where workers at an upstream station
only produced a part when requested so by a station downstream via some signal. this allowed each worker to take time, identify,
and fix errors before they become massive poo-poo balls. think of it as like links in a chain. you more easily find its broken links by pulling
it tightly back than by pushing it slackly forward. ## training toyota knew that they had to implement the
system at nummi, which included the famous "andon cord". the gm side of management asked whether it
would be wise to give workers the right to stop the line whenever they wished. toyota's management replied, "no, we intend
to give them the obligation to stop it whenever they find a problem." all new hires went through a four-day orientation. and then 450 team leaders and group leaders
were then sent to japan for a three-week classroom and on-the-job training program. nummi adopted the japanese spirit of heavy
training. new production workers received over 250 hours
of training in their first six months on the job, and 50 more hours of training each year
thereafter. typical american workers were lucky to receive
40 hours in their first 6 months and 20 hours annually thereafter. ## culture changes in the old gm system, management held all
the power no matter how competent they actually were. toyota on the other hand diffused certain
responsibilities out into the hands of the workers. so rather than like a traditional military
hierarchy, you had these small special forces units of 4-6 workers. these were all cross-trained in each other's
tasks - ergo all the aforementioned training time. these teams coordinated with their upstream
and downstream peers to determine the best way to work together. toyota tried their best to translate japanese-style
concepts to the united states. for instance, it took a year to implement
the concept of ringi-sho (????), a bottoms-up decision making process that relies
on circulating proposals to as many people as possible - even those not involved - to
obtain consensus. ## productivity production at nummi started slowly, but the
plant soon caught up. work began in late 1984 with the chevrolet
nova. plant workers at first struggled to learn
the new tps system with only 17 cars produced in the entire first month. these chevrolet novas sold poorly - gm management
didn't know they meant "no go" in spanish - so they switched to producing corollas and
later trucks. nummi's productivity vastly improved with
this switch - corollas had been more optimally designed for the tps system. by 1986, the number of hours it took for nummi
to produce a car - adjusted for weld number, automation, car size, and other factors - far
exceeded that of the old gm-fremont plant. it also exceeded that of a similar plant - gm-framingham
- and nearly matched toyota's core corolla plant in takaoka. absenteeism fell from 20-25% to just 3-4%. gm-fremont closed with over 2,000 grievances
outstanding. nummi had just 700 grievances its entire first
8 years. 90% of employees at the factory described
themselves as either being satisfied or very satisfied with their work. ## struggles it wasn't all perfume and roses however. one of the reasons why nummi performed so
well after gm-fremont was that workers experienced a brutal year of unemployment after the layoffs
and did not want to go through that again. 40% of the laid off gm-fremont workers were
still unemployed a year after the plant closed. jobs paid about $13 an hour, more than most
high schooled educated people can get at the time. nummi president ken higashi recalls that at
the beginning, the workers were just happy to have jobs with good pay and benefits. but the honeymoon soon ended, and workers
started grumbling about being pushed too hard. however then things started to get difficult. nummi workers constantly worried about the
plant's sustainability. the assembly line slowed down several times,
hitting only 56% utilization in 1988. throughout these tough times in the late 1980s,
nummi held to its no-layoffs stance. workers on the line were reassigned to other
parts of the plant, or were given training. it was only after that then that workers realized
that toyota really did value them as part of the team. and nummi management paid a lot of attention
to "symbols" of togetherness. senior executives and line workers parked
in the same lots, wore the same uniforms, and ate at the same cafeterias. it's not much it seems but it helped build
that sense of teamwork that toyota wanted. ## kentucky back in 1980, toyota would not have been able
to build a factory in america alongside honda and nissan. their key manufacturing people would not have
supported it. but the turnaround at nummi gave toyota confidence
that they could bring a factory to the united states. toyota now had experience in transplanting
their operations culture and managing an american supply chain. combined with the strengthening japanese yen
against the us dollar, toyota felt that a wholly-owned american factory had financial
advantages too. so as the setup work with nummi ramped down,
toyota went on to build a pair of new assembly factories in both kentucky and canada. today, toyota motor manufacturing kentucky
- whose workforce is not unionized - serves as one of the cores of the company's american
operations. ## gm technology transfer joint ventures like nummi
are an opportunity for both sides to benefit. one of the reasons why gm chairman roger smith
went ahead with the jv was for his company to learn toyota's production system, saying
in 1989: > why not take the opportunity to get an insider's
view of how the japanese do what they do? nummi's subsequent outperformance showed gm
just how uncompetitive they had come to be. yet the company struggled to diffuse these
lessons across the rest of the company. part of this had to do with the company's
resistance to change. one can make a valid argument that toyota
was more easily able to drive cultural change because of gm-fremont's closure as well
as nummi's ongoing economic challenges. so when gm tried to implement some of nummi's
lessons at another factory in van nuys a few years later, it didn't take. the van nuys plant managers were convinced
that they did not need to change. the plant didn't improve and gm eventually
closed that plant in 1992. ## conclusion in 2010, general motors - then suffering from
financial issues - pulled out from nummi. by now, nummi was largely a toyota plant - 90%
of the cars they produced were toyota cars. despite continued excellence, toyota no longer
wanted to run the plant on its own. perhaps because of its long-running financial
struggles, isolation from the rest of the toyota american supply chain, or its union
presence. so toyota shut the factory down. nummi's last car - a red corolla - rolled
off the line on april 1st, 2010. and then it was over. 4,500 people lost their jobs - many after
working for decades at the plant. a sad end to an underdog story. a few weeks later in may 2010, tesla motors
took over the facility. and today it now operates as the tesla fremont
factory. its workforce of some 22,000 - far larger
than nummi's ever was - is not unionized.