- today we waste $1,400 on mystery tech. usually it's ken who's doing the wasting. however, today he decided
to let his twitch followers spend all the money for this episode. so if it sucks, you know
who to blame, yourself. (chill music) hello, welcome to "mystery tech". fish belli pet one inch pet apatosaurus. i have a, wait, that's a tattoo! i get to put on a tattoo! - [matt] hold pressure on
that for a couple minutes. - okay, i'm thoroughly holding. okay, i think it's gotta be good, right? ooh, look at that! that right there is some a+ quality. - [ken] it matches your taco bell shirt. - wait, can i make him fly? - [matt] wow, what a literal flex. - with a fresh tattoo let's
see what's in the box. (austin laughs) wait, that's it? just a little dinosaur. i'm not sure what i expected. - [ken] it's not tech, but it's nice. - are we changing the name of "mystery tech" to "mystery nice"? this is not roboraptor, to be clear, that this is roboraptor x, but he can have his little buddy there. thank you very much for watching this episode of "mystery tech". you subscribe to the channel, right? i mean, obviously now that i've gotten a permanent dinosaur
tattoo of roboraptor's weird fourth cousin, twice removed, you know you gotta
subscribe to the channel. what are you waiting for? hit the bell. you're waiting for the tech? is that the joke? you're trying to make fun of me 'cause i don't have any tech?
guess what? that's your fault because
you didn't buy any tech. that looks like tech. good job, ken. that was very well-timed. - [ken] by the way, this item,
you might be wondering... - was it really expensive? - [ken] you might be
wondering why it's not a box, first of all. because it is not retail packaging, but the company that sent it to us is sponsoring today's "mystery tech". - we have a sponsor for "mystery tech"? we have a sponsor for "mystery tech"! we have a sponsor for "mystery tech"! yes, yes! the years of wasting money are over. what is this? - [matt] that is the duolink,
your first speaker buds. - speaker buds? wow, me and my buds hanging
out with my speaker buds. is this the one that breaks in, oh. so essentially it's a stereo
speaker that's magnetic, when you take it apart, and then you actually have
the earbuds themselves. okay, so they sound pretty good. so i think the thing that's
interesting about them is that the buds themselves have a lot of really good
passive noise cancellation. so literally just
putting them in your ears blocks out a lot of noise. but on top of that you have the capacitive touch on the back, to play and pause, as well
as change your volume. what i wanna do is, how does it work with the actual speaker? do i just put them in? - [matt] yes. - okay. (dynamic music)
oh! i did it. wait, how'd i do that? wait, you just put them
back in, that's it? wait, what happens if i take it out? oh, whoa, it's like instant. yo! okay, okay, okay, that's
actually pretty cool. woo. - [matt] that's the, there ya go. - yeah. look, we're like filling the
room with sound right now. yo, this is like actually stereo effect from all the way over here. yo, this is pretty rad. so how much is duolink? - [matt] at the time of shooting, you can pick them up
on kickstarter for $99. - this is 99 bucks? - [matt] yup, and when
it goes full retail, it would only be 150. - that's actually really solid. so even at $100, or even
$150, but especially at $100. i mean the in-ear headphones themselves are almost worth that. and that's not even considering
that you have the speaker, which as far as i'm concerned
is kind of the coolest part. i mean, sure, there've been wireless earbuds around in the past. but the idea of combining
it with a bluetooth speaker that can actually break apart, and it all charges and syncs together, that's really rad. so definitely be sure
to go check out duolink at the link in the description and get yourself some sweet audio action. (upbeat music) sweet audio action, is that
really the way i said that? sweet audio action. - yeah.
- sweet audio action. - [matt] those are words
that came out of your mouth. - hm, well, thank you very much for sponsoring this video duolink. and thank you very much for allowing me to enjoy your sweet audio action. so i just doubled down on that one. just so you're aware. i caught it. wonder bread, oh, ken. first think i see, best
if used by weeks ago. is that another toaster? - [matt] it's not just a
toaster, it's a revolution. - okay, here's the thing. there was an episode of "mystery
tech" a little while ago where ken bought a very, very
expensive japanese toaster, which was touted to be the
world's greatest toaster. and after mercilessly making fun of him, i realized that it actually
was a very good toaster, and i legitimately use it every day. how much was the revolution
cooking toast-o-matic 1400? - [ken] $300. (chill music) - that's a really big screen. oh, you know what though? it comes up fast. oh! - [ken] fancy. - so you know the one thing i actually don't like about normal toasters? we're all friends here, i can admit this. a little scary. a little scary.
- what? - [matt] are you afraid of toasters? - look, i appreciate some toasted bread. but everything's fine,
it's nice and quiet, all of sudden, bang! and then your bread pops up. it's a very frightening sound. - [matt] it's very silent.
(toaster beeps) oh, how fun. - okay, yeah, this is
actually pretty good. this is pretty good, ken. you got me with a toaster again. it's very hot. it's crisped. - oh that is literally perfect. (toast crunches) oh wow. whoa, whoa! - calm down. whoa! what, that's actually pretty good. - [matt] it's toast. - no but it--
- it's plain toast. - the consistency. - [matt] could you guys
be any whiter right now? - the consistency. - [matt] yeah, i know who i'm talking to. - all right, we're gonna
go pastry, fresh, start. - [matt] bold to say that's fresh, but... give me my pop-tart. - mm. you get one pop-tart, i get the other one. - everyone knows you eat two, okay. - get outta here. you think i'm not gonna eat a pop-tart? i mean, i'm not exactly
a pop-tart reviewer, but if i were to review
the revolution toaster, it may not be a revolution. - [ken] would you pay $300
for it, with your own money? - absolutely not. not a chance. but, it does a pretty good job. also, i like pop-tarts. that's a lot of pop-tarts,
imagine $300 in pop-tarts. i think i'd rather have that. okay. not another one of these. okay so, so this is 12
inch hd mobile phone screen amplifier with bluetooth speaker. what that really means, if
you speak non-marketing, is it's a little piece of
plastic in front of the screen to magnify it, and a bluetooth
speaker, and a little stand. i can most assuredly guarantee you that it will not look like this. it's gonna look bad. can we just take a second and acknowledge that these are a bunch of stock photos with it horribly photoshopped. and look, there's these two girls, and there's like part of a phone. this guy who's on like a laptop
and they put it in front. best gift for the old. like this one, which
just doesn't even make... that is some of the worst
photoshopping i have ever seen. oh man, this is cheap, cheap. this is like that dirt-cheap plastic. how much was this bluetooth
speaker combination? - [ken] $25. - that is about $21 too expensive. so here is our obligatory
piece of plastic, which is going to quote
unquote magnify our screen. so this is what we used
for the switch, right? the switch lite? - it's similar, actually
that is a very similar. oh that, yup, also as
creepy as i remember. wow! whoa! - woo, woo. there we go. wait, here you can have this. there we go.
- psychedelic. - this is ken's new camera lens. oh, oh, oh, okay. we're almost there, we're almost there. okay. if i look at it like this,
yeah, this is a good view. i think this is great. i'm just gonna say, don't waste your money on one of these things
'cause they all suck. we've done like five of
them on "mystery tech". but if you're looking for a
really cool camera filter, boom, there you go. see, boring hd vision, fun-o-vision. who doesn't want to
have some fun-o-vision? certainly not me. is that a furby?
- it is a furby. - so before i even open up the furby boom, ken how much was this? 'cause i remember hearing stories that this was a very popular kid's toy and they were very expensive. - [ken] so i paid $55 for this. - like five-five?
- five-five. - oh, that's not so bad. okay.
- scratch that. add an extra $100 to that. - it was $150?
- yes. (funky music) okay, all right. oh, that's that's disturbing,
if you open up its eyes and they're just blank and soulless. oh. all right.
- i know that feeling. - are you okay, matt?
- no. my cries for help are loud. (furby chattering) (roboraptor roaring) - roboraptor, roboraptor. roboraptor, roboraptor. (toys chattering) are they talking right now? wait, does roboraptor like the furby? (furby singing) what, roboraptor's all excited! - [matt] this is the first thing he hasn't immediately attacked. (beeps) the furby has turned
roboraptor against us. - no! is this how we lose roboraptor? - [furby] no way. - oh, yeah!
- get him roboraptor! - yeah! there we go, that's
what i'm talking about. it's okay, don't worry about that. it's fine. okay, well roboraptor's excited. this is the collectable good tiger electronics wheel of fortune. more toys? actually, i like wheel of fortune though. okay, let's go, round one. okay. event, spin. (upbeat music) $500. can i get a... wait, e, what? i'm player two? why would i not be player one? (toy buzzing and beeping) oh, it's broken. it's just the e button is
being constantly pressed. - [ken] oh that's sad. - [matt] give it a good whack. (toy beeping) - yeah, doesn't work. ta-dah, it's me, hello. "mystery tech" time. ooh, it's a big one. a keyboard. oh, it's a bad keyboard! a bad keyboard! the advantage two ergonomic keyboard. ken, i've always looked at these and i always think they look so stupid. so recently we took a
look at some of the best mechanical keyboards that you can buy, or customize, and even build. and after that i have a
much finer appreciation for this kind of stuff. so, for reference, in this
particular typing test i average around 70 to 90 based on the keyboard, words per minute. so let's see how this one works. oh, that is really bad. i have to look down 'cause i
don't know where anything is. 19 words per minute with 93% accuracy. okay, so look, if this is
something that is helpful for you, i get the idea of this
being very ergonomic. look, i mean, how i'm
resting my wrists here, i guess it doesn't feel super comfortable right out the gate. but i think that i am
fortunate enough not to have really any carpal tunnel issues, but it's an interesting concept. it actually does work. but this is something that
you really need to commit to, you really need to get
very much acquainted with, and then it might be all right. but i don't think i'll be
switching anytime soon. vufine, a heads-up display to
integrate with your devices for a hands-free experience. this isn't, is this the
google glass except dumb? - [matt] so you mean google glass? - i walked straight into that one. okay, so we have our instruction manual. and, is this it? oh wow, that's just a... okay. so i just do this. - [ken] and most
importantly, you can use it with your prescriptions, if
i understand it correctly. (chill music) - i don't think i'm using it right. - [ken] definitely not, no. - uh, uh, this is very strange. so i essentially can see
what's on the pc screen. it's pretty sharp. i think the display is only like 540p. but because, to my eye, it's like, they say it's like a four inch screen, it's very, very small. but i can very clearly read what's on the laptop screen right now. i can see the zero, zeros on the fans. the problem is though, if you see, it keeps pulling my glasses off my face. so you have to find some
way of managing your cable. it's interesting, it's cool. i don't think it's worth 200 bucks. thank you very much for watching this episode of "mystery tech". i'm very happy to report
that we had some tech today. and if you would like to see hot, spicy, "mystery tech" episodes
directly to your sub feed, make sure to subscribe
here to the channel. and keep that bell tolling
for the latest and greatest in ken's questionable decisions. can i watch it, can i watch
our new video on this? i bet i could. there we go. yeah, there we go.