in march of 1989, earth experienced one of 
its strongest geomagnetic storms in modern   history. it all started when scientists 
observed a cluster of sunspots-active,   magnetic areas on the sun's surface-emerging 
on its horizon. over the next few days,   the sun slowly rotated until the region began 
to point directly at earth. just as it did,   two solar flares erupted from the sunspots. 
accompanying the flares were coronal   mass ejections: huge bursts of solar wind, 
essentially charged particles from the sun.   the coronal mass ejections eventually 
crashed into the earth's magnetic field,   causing it to squish and compress and ultimately 
induce electric currents at the surface. in quebec, canada, the rapid changes in magnetic 
fields would have mostly gone unnoticed by people,   but they didn't go unnoticed by the 
power grid. the region's unique geology,   a shield of hard rock that is a poor conductor 
of electricity, kept these induced currents from   dissipating into the ground. so they found 
another path: the electrical transmission   lines. the geomagnetic storm ended up blacking 
out a large part of the hydro-quebec power   grid for nine hours. and the first domino of the 
collapse (or rather the first seven) were pieces   of equipment known as static compensators. but 
to understand how static compensators work and   why a solar flare could trip them offline, 
you kind of have to start with the basics. you might know that most parts of all modern power 
grids use alternating current or ac. the voltage   and current on the lines slosh back and forth, 
50 or 60 cycles per second, depending on where   you live. if you love power electronics, that 
low, dull, ac hum might be music to your ears.   but if this is kind of new to you, alternating 
current can be a little bit mysterious. what's   even weirder is that, even though the current 
constantly alternates its polarity, electrical   power only moves in one direction... under ideal 
conditions. and geomagnetic storms aren't the only   thing that can make the grid behave in funny ways. 
there are devices even in your own home that force   the grid to produce power and move it through the 
system, even though they aren't even consuming it.   let's go out to the garage, and i can show you 
what i mean. i'm grady, and this is practical   engineering. in today's episode, we're talking 
about how power actually flows on the grid. i've built a model power grid here in the 
shop. (not the first time i've said that,   and it probably won't be the last.) i'll 
keep it simple at first and build up the   complexity as i explain these concepts. and zap 
mcbody slam is back in the shop to help out.   my grid has one power source, right now just a 
battery, a transmission line to carry the power,   and a load (in this case, an incandescent light 
bulb). it's probably not the most interesting   circuit you've ever seen. but like i said, 
understanding the basics of power flow is   essential to understanding the more complicated, 
and i think, the more interesting aspects of   how it works on a huge scale. so, here's a 
one-minute refresher on electrical circuits: there are really only four numbers 
that matter the most in a circuit.   first is voltage, the difference in electric 
potential between two locations. in the classic   pipe analogy, voltage is the pressure that 
drives water to flow from one side to the   other. in my circuit, the battery is supplying 
about 10 volts across the bulb. next is current,   the flow of electric charge. in the pipe analogy, 
this is the flow rate of the water. in my circuit,   i can measure the current as 1.2 amps. third is 
resistance, the opposition to the flow of current.   it's the size of the pipe. incandescent bulbs 
actually change their resistance depending on   voltage, so it can't be measured directly with 
a meter. that's okay, though, because all three   of these values are related to each other. that 
relationship, called ohm's law, is about as simple   as it gets. voltage is equal to current times 
resistance. if you know two, you can find the   other one with some basic math. for example, 10.1 
volts flowing at 1.2 amps means the resistance of   my lightbulb is around 8 ohms. the final number we 
care about is power, the transfer of energy. power   does the actual work, in this case, creating 
light and heat in the bulb. calculating power   is as simple as multiplying the voltage and the 
current together. 10 volts times 1.2 amps tells   me that this bulb is dissipating 12 watts. 
that's electrical engineering in a nutshell,   and it's relatively straightforward for a 
circuit like this that uses direct current or dc,   because none of our important numbers change. 
but, as i mentioned, that's not true on the grid. let me swap out the battery with a transformer 
plugged into an outlet and see what happens.    at first glance, there's no change. the bulb is still 
lighting, just like it did with the battery. i can   measure the voltage by switching my meter to ac: 
8.4 volts, not too far from the dc circuit. i can   measure the current with this clamp over meter: 
1.2 amps, same as before. but those are just   simplifications of what's really happening on the 
lines. to see that, we need a different piece of   equipment. this oscilloscope measures voltage over 
time and plots it as a graph on the screen. and   i can insert a resistor into the circuit and 
use a second probe to plot the voltage across   that resistor as a simple way of measuring 
current. "so the yellow will be the voltage,   and the green will be the current." you can 
see that neither the voltage nor the current   are constant... unless you trip over all the 
cords. they're switching directions over   and over again. this might not be too 
surprising to you yet, but watch what   happens if i switch out the lightbulb with a 
different kind of load. let's try a capacitor. this is a device that stores energy in an electric 
field between two plates. you see them everywhere   in electrical circuits, and they do a funny 
thing on the grid. when i insert the capacitor   to my circuit, the graph of voltage and current 
looks different because they're no longer in   phase. "hey... that worked perfectly." the current 
waveform is leading the voltage; the current peaks   happen before the voltage ones. that's because the 
current has to flow into the capacitor before the   voltage between the plates rises. it takes time 
for the capacitor to charge and discharge, which   results in a delayed response in the voltage. now, 
let's try another type of load called an inductor. an inductor is basically a coil of wire. 
like a capacitor, an inductor stores energy,   but instead of an electric field, it stores 
that energy in a magnetic field. this is just an   electromagnet like you might see in a scrapyard. 
if i swap in an air-core inductor, you can hear   the screwdriver rattle against the table as the 
magnetic field rapidly changes direction.   and, we get the opposite effect of the capacitor when 
the inductor is inserted into the circuit. this   time, the current waveform is lagging the voltage. 
that magnetic field resists changes in current,   so it creates a delay, this time in the current 
waveform. i can even vary this inductance and   thus the lag in the current by moving this 
ferrite rod in and out of the core. all this   is interesting on its own, but these little shifts 
in a graph have serious implications on the grid,   and have even resulted in numerous 
blackouts across the world. here's why: remember, that the power consumed by an electrical 
load is just the voltage multiplied by the   current. we can do that for any point in time 
across this graph. for a purely resistive load,   like the lightbulb, the current and voltage 
are in sync. when one is positive, the other   is positive. when one is negative, the other 
is too. so when you multiply them together at   any point along the graph, you always get 
a positive number. the power fluctuates,   but it's always moving in one direction. for a 
reactive load (the term used for inductors and   capacitors), that's no longer the 
case. there are times in the cycle   when the current and voltage are opposite 
polarity, meaning, instead of being consumed,   power is actually flowing out of the load. in 
fact, for a purely capacitive or inductive load,   there's no power consumption at all - no work 
being done. it's just stored in a magnetic or   electric field and returned. but there's 
still current flowing, and that matters. of course, most things connected to the 
power grid aren't purely reactive. but   lots of devices that we plug in 
have some amount of inductance.   look around your home for any big motors. 
air conditioners, refrigerators, washers,   dryers, large power tools, and more primarily use 
induction motors because they're cheap, simple,   and last a long time. and inside an induction 
motor is a series of wire coils used to create   magnetic fields that spin the rotor, just like 
the inductor i used in the demo. part of the   power that flows into those coils just gets sent 
back out onto the grid. you might be thinking,   "so what? nothing wrong with storing a little 
bit of energy, as long as i give it back in   less than a sixtieth of a second afterwards." 
but, the grid still had to produce that power,   and more importantly, deliver that power 
to your home and carry it back away. the electric meter at your home, in most cases, 
only tracks the power you actually consume. so,   you don't pay for the reactive power that flows 
into your devices and back out again. but that   doesn't mean it doesn't come at a cost. it 
still has to flow through the power network,   where some gets lost as heat from resistance 
in the lines. so, the generators have to make,   and the transmission lines have to move, more 
power, in some cases a lot more power, than is   actually being used in the system. reactive power 
can make up a big part of the total load on the   system, even though it's not doing any work. just 
having the infrastructure in place to handle it   is also costly. the conductors, transformers, 
and generators on the grid have to be sized   for the total current that needs to move through 
the system, not just the current that does work.   and that stuff is expensive.  it's like if you were a photographer and bought a bunch of props   for a shoot from a company with a generous 
return policy. after you take your photos,   you return everything back to the store. those 
props were useful, even necessary to you, but only   for a period of time. and there was a real cost 
to warehousing, transporting, and restocking them,   even if you didn't bear it. imagine if there were 
a hundred photographers that did the same thing.   it wouldn't be long before such a store wasn't 
very profitable. but unlike at your home, where   the utility is generous in their return policy, 
lots of industrial and commercial customers   do get charged for reactive power that uses up 
capacity on the grid without doing any real work. even though the oscilloscope graphs just show 
a shift between the two waveforms, with some   clever math, you can actually separate the real 
power actually being used from the reactive power   that oscillates on the grid into two parts, 
and treat them like they flow through the   grid independently. i'm going to do my best to 
avoid that math here partly because it involves   imaginary numbers but mostly because it's not 
needed to understand the practical impacts.   (this is already a lot to wrap your head around.) 
but out of that math comes this visualization:   the power triangle. this leg is the 
real power that actually gets consumed,   measured in watts or kilowatts that you're 
probably used to. this leg is the reactive   power that is returned instead of used, measured 
in volt-amps-reactive or var. by convention,   we usually say that inductive devices "consume" 
reactive power and capacitive devices "supply"   it. the hypotenuse of the triangle is the 
apparent power, the total amount of power that   flows through the grid, measured in volt-amps. if 
you divide the real power by the apparent power,   you get this ratio, called the power factor, 
a number that will be important in a minute. take a look at the distribution transformer that 
connects your home to the grid, and you might see   a rating on the side. that number is not in watts 
or kilowatts like what you might see on a toaster   or microwave, but in kilovolt-amps because it 
includes the flow of real and reactive power.   large users of electricity, like factories and 
refineries, usually have a low power factor   because they use lots of big induction motors. 
they need comparatively robust and high-capacity   connections to the grid, even if they actually 
consume only a portion of the energy that flows   through. so the electric utility installs a meter 
that can track power factor, or they just come out   every once in a while to measure it, so they can 
put it on the bill. instead of free returns on   reactive power, like we usually get at our homes, 
those customers have to pay a rental charge on   the power they store, even though it goes right 
back out. but, it's not just a matter of keeping   track of costs. the stability of the entire grid 
depends on managing the flow of reactive power. if you've watched some of my other videos on 
the power grid, you know how important it is to   closely match power generation with demands as 
they go up and down. if not managed carefully,   the frequency of the grid, which needs to stay 
within a very tight tolerance, can deviate. and   if it goes too far, the whole thing can collapse. 
that's what almost happened to texas during the   winter storm in 2021. but, it's possible for the 
grid to collapse even if there's enough generation   to meet the demand because you still have to move 
that power to where it's needed over transmission   lines. engineers use a pv curve to keep an eye 
on this challenge. it relates the power flowing   to a load on the system to the voltage it sees. 
as you would expect, the more power that flows,   the more the voltage drops, since more power 
is lost on the transmission lines on the way   to the load. it's the same reason the lights dim 
in old houses when the air conditioner kicks on:   current goes up, voltage goes down. if you 
combine ohm's law and the power equation,   you can see that the power lost on a transmission 
line is related to the current squared. double the   amps; quadruple the power lost as heat. but the 
further along this curve that the system operates,   the more dangerous things get. there is a point, 
the nose of the curve, beyond which greater demand   on the system actually reduces the amount of 
power that can be delivered, all while the   voltage continues dropping. the generators may 
have the capacity to supply more power, but it   can't reach the load because of the limitations of 
the system. operating below the nose is unstable   because generators lose control of their speed, 
like a rubber tire losing its grip on a road. infrastructure is expensive, and building new 
power plants and transmission lines always comes   with legal and environmental challenges too, so 
we're often forced to use the grid to the very   limits of its capacity. but, grid managers 
need to make sure to operate with enough   margin that any contingency, like a generator 
going offline or a transmission line faulting,   doesn't push the system over the electrical 
cliff. here's where power factor comes in.   loads with lower power factor shift the nose 
of the pv curve down and to the left. that   reduces the margin and lowers the voltages 
in the system for a given power demand,   making a voltage collapse more likely if some 
part of the system goes down. so we use several   ways to supply reactive power to provide 
voltage support and shift the curve back up. power plants can adjust their operating 
parameters to supply reactive power,   but transmission lines have their own inductance 
that consumes the reactive power as it travels   through. so, it is usually more efficient 
to address the problem on the load side,   and there are several types of infrastructure that 
make this possible. synchronous condensers are big   motors that aren't attached to anything. 
instead of converting electrical power   to mechanical power, they basically spin freely, 
but with some clever circuitry, they can generate   or absorb reactive power from the grid. they 
can also help stabilize fluctuations in the grid   with the inertia of their heavy rotating mass, 
something that is becoming increasingly important   as we transition more to renewable sources 
that use inverters to connect to the network. another option, and one you're more likely 
to spot, are shunt capacitor banks connected   across the lines. sometimes you can see them 
in substations, but many capacitor banks are   installed on poles out in the open for anyone 
to have a look. like the capacitor in my demo,   they increase the power factor and boost the 
pv curve up. that can actually become a problem   during off-peak hours by boosting the voltage 
above where it should be, so many capacitor banks   are switched on or off depending on system 
conditions. looking back at the pv curve,   you can see how leaving the capacitors off during 
periods of low demand keeps voltage within limits,   and having them on when demand is high 
provides more margin and more voltage.   some run on timers to come on during the highest 
demands of the day, and many are operated at a   utility's discretion to accommodate the varying 
conditions on the grid. they're usually either   all the way on or all the way off, so deciding 
when to throw the switch is an important one. a third option for reactive power supply, 
called a static var compensator or svc,   addresses that challenge. these use electronics 
to rapidly switch inductors and capacitors on or   off to constantly adjust to conditions in the 
system. that switching happens automatically   and quickly, making them much better suited to 
the dynamic changes that happen on the grid. that's why hydro-quebec had them installed on 
their system in 1989. the long transmission   lines between the hydroelectric power plants in 
the north and the load centers, like montreal,   in the south require careful control of 
the voltage to avoid instability. but the   geomagnetic storm threw a wrench in the works.  the induced currents in the transformers and along   those transmission lines seriously increased the 
reactive power demand of the system. the resulting   distortions in the voltage and current waveforms 
hadn't been considered when the equipment was   installed. the svcs weren't configured to handle 
the dynamic conditions affecting the system, so   relays designed to protect them tripped, pulling 
the equipment out of service. without the svcs,   the voltage on the grid dropped, the frequency 
increased, and chaos ensued. the grid operators   couldn't disconnect customers fast enough 
to keep things stable, and within seconds,   the rest of the system collapsed. lots 
of equipment was permanently damaged,   and millions woke up that frigid morning with no 
real power, reactive power, or apparent power,   shutting down basically the entire province for 
half-a-day and requiring costly and expensive   repairs. they learned a lot of lessons that 
day, and adjusted a lot of relay settings   since then. it's just one of many case studies 
on the importance of understanding and managing   this hopefully a little-less-perplexing 
idea of reactive power on the grid. one of the biggest challenges as renewables become 
a much more significant proportion of electricity   sources is controlling swings in voltage 
that can happen when the sun or wind suddenly   change. and one of the countries preparing 
to meet, at least for short periods of time,   100 percent of electrical demands using renewable 
sources is australia. one idea they're exploring i   thought was really cool is repurposing old fossil 
fuel generators into synchronous condensers that   can stabilize those swings, keeping reactive 
power flowing. pretty creative solution, pretty   cool country. and if you want to see some of the 
coolest parts of it, my friend sam of wendover   productions just kicked off the next season of 
jet lag, a travel-based game show. they're going   across the entire country trying to claim as many 
regions as possible by winning challenges. it's a   super creative concept in its tenth season, and 
every episode gets released early on nebula. you probably know about nebula now. it's a 
streaming service built by and for independent   creators. there are no studio executives deciding 
what gets the green light, no advertisements,   and no algorithm driving the content into a 
single style. it's just independent creators   making stuff they're excited about with as 
few barriers and distractions as possible   between you and us. the website just got a huge 
update that completely redesigned the home page,   making it easier to find new stuff 
in addition to your favorites. my videos go live on nebula before they come 
out here, and my practical construction series   was specifically produced for nebula viewers who 
want to see deeper dives into specific topics. i   know there are a lot of streaming platforms 
out there right now, but there aren't many   this cheap or where you know your money is 
going to support your favorite creators. and   we have a 40% off deal right now. pay just 
one time, 30 dollars, for an entire year's   access at nebula.tv/practical-engineering. 
or if you have subscription fatigue,   but still want to support what i'm doing, 
you can get a lifetime membership. pay   once have access to everything nebula will ever 
offer, including a bunch of very cool originals   coming soon. if you're with me that independent 
creators are the future of great video,   i hope you'll consider subscribing. thank you 
for watching, and let me know what you think!