Designing
Virtual
Worlds
Richard A. Bartle
Original edition copyright © 2003.
This edition is released under a Creative Commons Licence 4.0:
CC BY-NC-ND
🅭🅯🄏⊜
It’s provided non-exclusive and royalty-free. If you paid to buy it, you’ve been
ripped off.
Fonts used:
• Zilla Slab by Typotheque (released under the Open Font Licence)
• Lato by Łukasz Dziedzic (released under the Open Font Licence)
• CCSymbols by Daniel Aleksandersen (public domain)
To the players.
----*
Contents
1 Introduction to Virtual Worlds.................................................................................................1
2 How to Make Virtual Worlds ...............................................................................................109
3 Players.........................................................................................................................................167
4 World Design............................................................................................................................329
5 Life in the Virtual World ...................................................................................................... 466
6 It’s Not a Game, It’s a…...........................................................................................................627
7 Toward a Critical Aesthetic..................................................................................................832
8 Coda: Ethical Considerations.............................................................................................. 892
Acknowledgements
This book would not have been written were it not for:
John Neidhart at Pearson Education, who was willing to indulge my desire to
write about virtual world design despite the fact that he was actually looking
for a book about AI.
Stephanie Wall and Chris Zahn at New Riders, who gave me an enthusiastic
welcome when I appeared on their doorstep at short notice as a result of a
Pearson reorganization. They gave me the time and freedom I needed to finish
the job properly.
My wife, Gail Bartle. From June 2002 until April 2003, I turned down all
consultant and design work I was offered so I could write this book. Without her
quiet but unfailing support, you wouldn’t be reading this now.
I’d also like to thank Damion Schubert and Matt Mihaly for the many insightful
comments they made in their reviews (sometimes several to a page). This book
would still have been written without them, it just wouldn’t have been as worth
reading.
About the Author
Richard Allan Bartle, Ph.D., co-wrote the first virtual world, MUD
(“Multi-User Dungeon”), in 1978, thus being at the forefront of the
online gaming industry from its very inception. A former
university lecturer in Artificial Intelligence, he is an influential
writer on all aspects of virtual world design and development. As
an independent consultant, he has worked with almost every major
online gaming company in the UK and the U.S. over the past 20
years. Richard lives with his wife, Gail, and their two children,
Jennifer and Madeleine, in a village just outside Colchester,
England. He works in virtual worlds.
About the Technical Reviewers
These reviewers contributed their considerable hands-on expertise to the entire
development process for Designing Virtual Worlds. As the book was being
written, these dedicated professionals reviewed all the material for technical
content, organization, and flow. Their feedback was critical to ensuring that
Designing Virtual Worlds fits our reader’s need for the highest-quality technical
information.
Matt Mihaly is the founding partner, lead designer, and CEO of
Achaea LLC. Founded in 1996 in San Francisco, Achaea designs and
produces some of the world’s most popular and successful
commercial text MUDs, including Achaea, Dreams of Divine lands
(http://www.achaea.com), Aetolia, the Midnight Age
(http://www.aetolia.com), and Imperian
(http://www.imperian.com)—all of which run on Achaea’s
proprietary network engine, Rapture. Unlike most MUDs and
MMOGs, Achaea LLC’s games do not charge a monthly fee, relying
instead on the business model Matt pioneered in which access to
the games is free and players are presented with the option of purchasing
virtual items and abilities within the context of the game. Matt graduated from
Cornell University in 1994 with a degree in Political Science and is a licensed
stockbroker. These experiences have informed his game design tendencies and
he is an expert on business models, political systems, and community dynamics
in virtual worlds. Along with the inevitable interest in games, he spends his free
time pursuing Brazilian jujitsu and kickboxing, cooking, travelling, hiking,
kayaking, skiing, and scuba diving.
Damion Schubert has been working in online world design
professionally for over seven years. He was originally the lead
designer of Meridian 59 (and several expansions), as well as
the lead designer for the defunct Ultima Online 2. He has also
served as a contractor for such projects as The Sims Online
and Kalisto’s Highlander Online. Currently Damion is serving
as a senior designer at Wolfpack, which is preparing to ship
Shadowbane in the near future.
Preface
The aim of this book is to make people think about virtual world design.
Whether you agree with any of it is not an issue, as long as you advance your
own thoughts on the subject.
Too much virtual world design is derivative. Designers take one or more
existing systems as foundations on which to build, sparing little thought as to
why these earlier worlds were constructed the way they were. This is troubling,
not because it leads to artistic sterility—designers are always imaginative
enough to make their creations special—but because the resulting virtual
worlds might not work as well as they could. If designers don’t know the
reasoning behind earlier decisions, how can they be sure that the conditions
that sustained those decisions still apply when they act on them?
Are designers even aware that there are decisions they can unmake?
Although a good deal of design is evolutionary, that does not mean designers
can’t be revolutionary too. Virtual worlds are all about freedom—for their
inhabitants, yes, but also for their designers. Just because every virtual world
you can think of classifies characters using some variation of a basic fourprofession model, that doesn’t mean your virtual world has to classify them that
way; more to the point, it doesn’t even mean that your virtual world has to
classify characters at all.
Virtual worlds are unlike anything else. You can’t approach them from a
background in some other area—game design, literature, media studies,
architecture, or whatever—and expect all the normal rules to apply.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t look that way from the outside. “How hard can it be?”
is a question often asked by people entering the field from some related area
that is considered to be Pretty Damned Tough.
Then they find out.
If they’re lucky, they find out quickly. If they’re unlucky, they only find out after
18 months and half their budget. Designing virtual worlds is very difficult,
unless you know what you’re doing; then, it’s no harder than any other complex
design activity.
The key is in recognizing the fact that what seems eminently logical to you
from your usual perspective might turn out to be disastrous when viewed from
another angle—and then realizing that the worlds you’re drawing inspiration
from almost certainly contain elements designed by people who didn’t recognize
that fact until it was too late.
To design a virtual world is perhaps the greatest act of creative imagination
there can be. The possibilities are absolutely limitless—you can make and do
anything in them. Anything! Today’s virtual worlds are mere children’s scribbles
compared to the masterpieces to come.
We see these scribbles, but have no concept of how the masterpieces will
appear; the virtual worlds of the future will not be like the virtual worlds of
today, in ways we cannot yet know. Thus, much of what you read in this book is
doomed, eventually, to be proven wrong. However, it might well point the way
to discovering what is right. All it takes is for people to think about what they’re
designing; if reading this book helps in that respect, then it has done its job.
I don’t care what you think, so long as you think.

Introduction to Virtual Worlds 1
Chapter 1
Introduction to
Virtual Worlds
What are virtual worlds? In this context, a world is an
environment that its inhabitants regard as being self-contained.
It doesn’t have to mean an entire planet: It’s used in the same
sense as “the Roman world” or “the world of high finance.”
So what about the virtual part? Not to get too philosophical
about it:
• Real: That which is.
• Imaginary: That which isn’t.
• Virtual: That which isn’t, having the form or effect of that
which is.
Virtual worlds are places where the imaginary meets the real.
2 Chapter 1
Some Definitions
A computer implements virtual worlds (or network of
computers) that simulate an environment. Some—but not all—
the entities in this environment act under the direct control of
individual people. Because several such people can affect the
same environment simultaneously, the world is said to be shared
or multi-user. The environment continues to exist and develop
internally (at least to some degree) even when there are no
people interacting with it; this means it is persistent.
Although virtual worlds now have many applications beyond
that of being mere entertainment products, they began as
computer games; furthermore—perhaps because of the large
sums of money involved in their creation and the guaranteed
huge monthly incomes they can generate—computer games
remain at the cutting edge of virtual world development.
For these reasons, much of the vocabulary commonly used to
describe virtual worlds is games-based. Thus, the human beings
who interact with the simulated environment are known as
players rather than users; the means by which the environment
introduces goals for the players is called gameplay; the activity
of interacting with the environment is referred to as playing.
Specialists may adopt a different vocabulary that is formal for
their particular area of expertise, for example a cultural
anthropologist might prefer to talk of “individuals” exhibiting
“behaviors” in response to “pressures;” however, for any broader
discussion of the subject the dominance of game-oriented
terminology is impossible to resist, and it is therefore the one
that shall be used here.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 3
The exception is the very term “virtual world” itself. Over the
years, a number of words, phrases, and contrived acronyms
have been used to describe these projected milieus, none of
which have been entirely successful. For reasons that will be
explained shortly, virtual worlds were originally known as
Multi-User Dungeons (MUDs).
Although this term is still in common currency to the extent
that it has made it into several regular dictionaries, it is not
universally accepted. In particular, many players of certain of its
subcategories see it as implying some kind of combat-oriented
world view, and prefer the term MU* instead (MU for MultiUser and * for anything that could conceivably follow).
This would be analogous to calling dinosaurs *saurs on the
grounds that “dinosaurs” vaguely implies1
that they were all
pea-brained carnivorous monsters, whereas in fact many were
pea-brained herbivorous monsters—and hey, there are
pterosaurs and plesiosaurs, too.
The first virtual worlds were text-based, in that their
environments and the events occurring within them were
described using words rather than images. Confusingly,
although the term MUD applies to virtual worlds in general, the
term MU* does not—it’s used strictly for text-based worlds.
The introduction of computer graphics into the mix therefore
caused a second spate of naming, in order to make a distinction
between graphical MUDs and text MUDs. At first the new games
were called persistent worlds, but when the enormous numbers
of simultaneous players they were attracting became their
defining feature this changed to MMORPGs (MassivelyMultiplayer Online Role-Playing Games). Said acronym
1
“Dino” comes via New Latin from the Greek deinos, meaning “fearful.”
Saurus merely means “lizard.”
4 Chapter 1
dominates at present, but it is rarely used with enthusiasm (not
least because it’s unpronounceable) and it is therefore likely to
be abandoned the instant some viable alternative emerges.
Although, properly, all these persistent, shared, computermoderated environments can and should be referred to as
MUDs, the term is sufficiently loaded that outside the
cognoscenti it is unlikely to be universally interpreted this way.
Enough people think that MUDs are a mere category of MU*s
(rather than the reverse) for it to be confusing. Therefore, this
book prefers the more descriptive and less emotive “virtual
worlds” as an alternative.
It is important to note that virtual worlds are not the same as
virtual reality (VR), which has a much more specific meaning.
Virtual reality is primarily concerned with the mechanisms by
which human beings can interact with computer simulations; it
is not especially bothered by the nature of the simulations
themselves. People who visit virtual worlds may some day
benefit from research into visors, data gloves, and beyond, but
the fundamental attraction for them is what awaits when they
enter a virtual world, not the means by which they do so.
What They Are and Whence They
Came
Although more abstract versions can, and do, exist, most virtual
worlds adhere to certain conventions that distinguish them
from related non-real spaces. The most important of these are:
• The world has underlying, automated rules that enable
players to effect changes to it (although not to the rules
that grant them this ability). This is the world’s physics.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 5
• Players represent individuals “in” the world. They may
wield partial or total influence over an army, crew or
party, but there is only one game entity that represents
them in the world and with which they strongly
identify. This is their character. All interaction with the
world and other players is channeled through
characters.
• Interaction with the world takes place in real time.
When you do something in the world, you can expect
feedback almost immediately.
• The world is shared.
• The world is (at least to some degree) persistent.
A chat room would not be a virtual world because it has no
physics; a strategic wargame doesn’t map the player onto a
single character through which that player acts; a play-by-email
game doesn’t run in real time; a single-player game is not
shared; a first-person shooter isn’t persistent.
For some examples, the case is not so clear-cut. Are tabletop
role-playing games virtual worlds, for example? No, because
they’re not automated, but it’s a close call. Would a two-player
educational MUD be a virtual world? Probably. Would a 500-
player game with a world so vast that the players could never
find each other? Yes, but under protest.
In practice, it’s fairly easy to determine what is or isn’t a virtual
world simply by looking at its heritage. If its design draws
heavily from the design of an existing virtual world, it almost
certainly is one; if it doesn’t, it almost certainly isn’t.
The First Age: 1978–1985
Virtual worlds are often called MUDs because MUD was the
name of the first one to prosper. Although earlier games had
6 Chapter 1
been written that might today be described as virtual worlds,
they were seeds that fell on stony ground. MUD, by contrast,
grew to produce seeds of its own.
MUD was programmed in MACRO-10 assembler on a
DecSystem-10 mainframe at Essex University, England, in the
fall of 1978. Its author was a talented Computer Science
undergraduate, Roy Trubshaw. Version I was a simple test
program to establish the basic principles by which a shared
world could be maintained. When it worked, Roy immediately
started on version II, a text-based virtual world that would be
instantly recognizable as such even today. It was also written in
MACRO-10, a decision that led to its becoming increasingly
unwieldy as more and more features were added. Because of
this, in the fall of 1979 Roy made the decision to begin work on
version III of the game. He split it in two: The game engine was
written in BCPL (the fore-runner of C); the game world was
written in a language of his own devising, MUDDL (Multi-User
Dungeon Definition Language). The idea was that multiple
worlds could be constructed in MUDDL but would run on the
same, unmodified engine (which was effectively an interpreter).
Roy had a basic working program by Easter 1980, but it only
amounted to a fraction of what he envisaged. This being the
final year of his degree, he realized that he did not have time to
complete the project. Someone else would have to do it.
From the beginning, Roy had been open to suggestions from his
friends as to how MUD could be extended and improved. Most
of these ideas came from fellow undergraduates Richard Bartle
(that’s me) and Nigel Roberts. Unlike Nigel, I was younger than
Roy and did not have to leave the university for another year (in
fact, I was to stay until 1989; first as a postgraduate and then as
a lecturer). Luckily, I was also a first-class programmer and had
a strong background in gaming. Roy therefore passed MUD on
to me, and I subsequently wrote the remainder of the engine
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 7
and nearly all the world to produce what became the paradigm
for the entire genre. That’s enough blowing my own trumpet,
you’ll be relieved to know.
Roy had two motivations to write MUD. First, he had enjoyed
single-player adventure games (Crowther and Woods’ ADVENT;
Anderson, Blank, Daniels, and Lebling’s ZORK; Laird’s HAUNT)
and liked the idea of creating a multiplayer game along those
lines. Secondly, he had a strong academic interest in writing
programming language parsers and interpreters. The two came
together when he discovered a means of sharing write-enabled
areas of memory on the DEC-10 mainframe and mused on its
potential uses.
The “D” in MUD stands for “Dungeon.” Contrary to what many
people assume, this has nothing to do with the role-playing
game Dungeons & Dragons and does not mean that the game
world had a dungeon setting2
. Instead, it is due to the fact that
the version of ZORK Roy played was a Fortran port called
DUNGEN3
. Roy wanted something that was like a multi-user
DUNGE(o)N, and the acronym MUD immediately presented
itself.
Essex University is a mere 45 minutes by road from the main
(what was then the Post Office, but is now) British Telecom
research facility, located at Martlesham Heath near Ipswich.
This caused the university to be selected to pilot a new,
experimental packet-switching service called EPSS. Among
other things, EPSS allowed contact to and from the ARPA
(Advanced Research Project Agency) net in the United States.
Roy could therefore tell people in the U.S. about MUD, and some
2 This is just as well, as it didn’t.
3 The DEC-10used six-character, all uppercase filenames. This is why
“Dungeon” is referred to as DUNGEN and “Adventure” as ADVENT by oldtime hackers like me.
8 Chapter 1
of them came to try it out4
. The ARPA net eventually evolved to
become what is known today as the Internet.
Nevertheless, MUD remained a mainly Essex University
phenomenon in its formative years, existing primarily because
of the largesse of the Computer Services team and their
manager, Charles Bowman. In the teeth of complaints about
wasted resources, members of the university’s Computer
Society were allowed to spend off-peak time doing anything
non-academic they liked. Many of them chose to play MUD.
Some, however, were inspired to write their own games in
MUDDL for use with the MUD engine. There were a number of
these, of which the pre-eminent were ROCK (based on TV’s
Fraggle Rock Muppet show), MIST (original and anarchic), BLUD
(original and bloody), and UNI (the Computer Science
Department as a sword-and-sorcery virtual world).
Besides its EPSS connections, Essex University also had a
number of modems for dial-up use. News of MUD reached the
UK’s small community of BBS (bulletin board system) users, and
they obtained permission to play the game by direct dial—just
as long as they did so at times when any sane person would
have been in bed for two hours. This they did, and demand grew
so much that that they clubbed together and bought the
university some extra modems so it could cope!
Network uptake increased, and eventually all UK universities
were connected to a system called JANet (Joint Academic
Network). EPSS ceased to be experimental and became PSS,
which enabled people with access to either company PSS
accounts or substantial amounts of money to connect to the
university’s computer systems in yet greater numbers. In 1984–
4 A fact that has busted more than one twisted patent claim.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 9
85, there were articles on MUD in practically all the specialist
computer games magazines in the UK. The floodgates opened.
The MUD engine had its limits. It could hold a maximum of 36
players at once5
, and if more wanted to play, a second game
would have to be cranked up to supersede the first.
Furthermore, it only ran on a DEC-10, and although copies were
sent to other institutions in the UK, Sweden, and Norway, only
two of these allowed outsiders access (Dundee Technical College
and Oslo University).
While Roy was still working on version II of MUD, another
student at Essex University, Stephen Murrell, had written from
scratch his own virtual world using a different means of
handling inter-player communication (that of assigning
devices). His game, PIGG, was also written in MACRO-10 and
eventually ran into the same maintainability problems as MUD.
Nevertheless, the precedent was set. A number of external
players of MUD became inspired, or frustrated enough by it, to
set about writing their own games.
The Second Age: 1985–1989
The first such virtual worlds to appear were Neil Newell’s
Shades, Ben Laurie’s Gods, and AMP6
. They were followed
shortly by Pip Cordrey, et al’s very active MirrorWorld. As these
games were all derived from MUD, they became collectively
referred to as “MUDs” or, occasionally, “MUGs” (Multi-User
5 The DEC-10 used a 36-bit world, and Roy assigned 1 bit per player for internal
reference.
6 Unfortunately, I only ever metthe husband-and-wife team behind AMP once,
and have been unable to recall their names. I don’t think I ever did know for
what AMP is an acronym. {Erratum: AMP stands for Adventure for Multiple
Players, and was written by Mike Blandford.}
10 Chapter 1
Games). The original MUD was dubbed MUD1 (even though it
was in its third version) to disambiguate it from the class of
MUDs. This marked the beginning of the second age of virtual
worlds.
The possibility of making money from these games arose, so
MUD1 went live both on the dominant U.S. online service of the
time, CompuServe, and a UK look-alike, CompuNet. A
programmer at CompuNet, Alan Lenton, was moved to write his
own virtual world, Federation II, which has the distinction of
being the first MUD to have a non-Fantasy setting (it was
Science Fiction).
MUD1, Federation II, Shades (on the Prestel Micronet teletext
system), and Gods (in a German translation) went on to achieve
commercial success. Scores of other MUDs were created in the
UK, written mainly by players of the Big Four. It was a time of
great experimentation in both game world and game engine
design, with much original work coming from the MirrorWorld
group on their IOWA (Input/Output World of Adventure)
system7
.
Around this time, the decision was made to rewrite MUD1 from
scratch as MUD2 (although it was actually version IV). The
original architecture and its DEC-10 platform had proved too
limiting, and MUDDL (which owed much to the database
definition scheme employed by ADVENT) was not sufficiently
powerful to handle advanced concepts. A new language,
MUDDLE (Multi-User Dungeon Definition LanguagE), was
developed from first principles specifically for writing MUDs. It
turned out to be expressive enough to stand the test of time,
7 This period of experimentation parallels that which occurred in early
conventional computer game design, although the two occurred quite
separately.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 11
and this was therefore the last occasion on which the game
MUD was to be rewritten in its entirety.
Virtually all the key issues of virtual world design were
identified in the first and second ages. By 1987, for example, all
the protocols and in-game tools for dealing with player
problems were in place and reasonably well codified, thanks to
the pioneering efforts of people like Mark Longley (MUD1),
Michael Lawrie (MIST), and Pip Cordrey (MirrorWorld). Sadly,
however, this kind of knowledge was not passed on in its
entirety. Developers of descendant games usually knew what
they ought to have, but not necessarily why they ought to have
it, with the result that after several generations a number of
important concepts had been forgotten.
Games that were launched 10 years later, therefore, had to
rediscover some of the fundamentals the hard way.
Most of the MUDs that were written in the second age were
programmed by enthusiasts at home8
. At this time (but not for
much longer), single-player text adventures were a very
important part of the computer game market, so there were
plenty of people who understood the principles. Because few
academic institutions in the UK were as liberal with their
computer resources as Essex University, those MUDs that were
written at such places tended to achieve only local success.
The exception was AberMUD, so called because it was written at
the University of Wales at Aberystwyth. Its programmer, Alan
Cox, wrote it in B (another fore-runner of C) for a Honeywell L66
mainframe under GCOS3/TSS in 1987. A year later, it was ported
to C. This was a turning point in virtual world history. The
8 For a reasonably comprehensive survey of these, see
http://www.mud.co.uk/richard/imucg.htm.
12 Chapter 1
game wasn’t particularly advanced either technologically or in
terms of content (it was very combat-oriented), but it was great
fun. More importantly, in C it was positioned to make a huge
advance: It could run under Unix.
The Third Age: 1989–1995
AberMUD spread across university computer science
departments like a virus. Identical copies (or incarnations)
appeared on thousands of Unix machines. It went through four
versions in rapid succession, spawning several imitators. The
three most important of these were TinyMUD, LPMUD, and
DikuMUD.
TinyMUD, by Jim Aspnes at Carnegie Mellon University, arrived
in 1989. It had two main ancestors: AberMUD, and a VAX VMS
game called Monster that had been released a year earlier.
Monster (by Rich Skrenta at Northwestern University) was
unusual in that it was written independently of the general
MUD1 hierarchy. Its main innovation was the facility to create
elements of the virtual world from within the world itself. This
was something that had been removed from MUD1 in the switch
from version II to version III.
TinyMUD was basically a stripped-down version of Monster.
Although still a virtual world, it had practically no “game”
aspect to it at all. Players could create new locations and objects
(but not much functionality) almost with impunity. Whereas
MUD1 and AberMUD had boasted around 400–500 discrete
locations, a popular 1990 incarnation of TinyMUD called Islandia
racked up over 14,000 of them in the few months of its
existence.
The lack of game in TinyMUD meant that players spent most of
their time creating things and talking about their creations.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 13
Although not the first primarily “social” virtual world (Clive
Lindus’ cleverly conceived Void9 beat it by a few months), it was
the one from which virtually all subsequent such worlds sprang.
TinyMUD was deliberately intended to be distanced from the
prevailing hack-and-slay AberMUD style, and the “D” in its name
was said to stand for “Dimension” (or, occasionally, “Domain”)
rather than “Dungeon;” this is the ultimate cause of the
MUD/MU* distinction that was to arise some years later.
LPMUD was named after its author, Lars Pensjö of the
University of Gothenburg, Sweden. Having played both
AberMUD and TinyMUD, he decided he wanted to write his own
game with the adventure of the former and the userextensibility of the latter. Whereas most early MUD designers
were of the haughty opinion that players weren’t as good at
world creation as they, Lars believed the opposite, that players
could build a better world than he could himself. To this end, he
developed an in-game programming language called LPC that
allowed players of sufficient experience to add not only objects,
but also powerful functionality to the game as it ran.
This was a major advance, and introduced many people to the
wonders of programming without frying their brains in the
manner that conventional academic learn-to-program courses
tend to do. LPC was sufficiently well designed and is still very
much in use today.
DikuMUD was created at the Department of Computer Science
at the University of Copenhagen (Datalogisk Institutved
Københavns Universitet), Denmark. Released in 1990, its
authors were a group of student friends: Katja Nyboe, Tom
9
Its name over the years has been variously Void, The Void, and Vortex, but
they’re all the same place. Void is adult in nature, and was directly inspired
by the first such virtual world, The Zone.
14 Chapter 1
Madsen, Hans Henrik Staerfeldt, Michael Seifert, and Sebastian
Hammer. It was designed purely as a better AberMUD, and
made no reference to either TinyMUD or LPMUD. Whereas these
other two games had moved toward allowing on-the-fly changes
to be made to the virtual world, DikuMUD’s designers went in
the opposite direction and hard-coded everything they could.
However, they hard-coded it very well: DikuMUD ran “out of the
box” and was organized very well internally. A reasonable C
programmer could easily modify the original DikuMUD code and
produce a new world of their own, or change the data files to
create a differently-appearing one. Many did.
As a result, several major codebases (standalone MUD program
suites) were created from the basic DikuMUD original, the main
ones being Circle, Silly, and Merc. Merc spawned ROM (Rivers of
MUD) and Envy, among others, and these in turn had their own
spinoffs. All appeared—and continue to appear—in a dizzying
number of sub-versions.
LPMUD did not inspire quite so many offshoots, because LPC
was flexible enough to allow people to write their own games
without writing their own game engines. Although most
LPMUDs are combat-oriented, critically (and unlike DikuMUDs)
they don’t have to be10
.
The TinyMUD family tree is perhaps the most interesting of the
three main AberMUD-inspired branches. TinyMUD itself was
little more than a mere proof of concept. Incarnations of the
game would appear on some long-forgotten university Unix
machine, enjoy a few short months of brilliant existence, and
then collapse under the weight of acrimony, apathy, and full
10 For a comparison between LPMUDs and DikuMUDs, see Rawn Shah’s and
James Romine’s, Playing MUDs on the Internet. New York, John Wiley, 1995.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 15
disk packs that they caused. Those players who weren’t put off
virtual worlds for life would then migrate11 to another nascent
TinyMUD and the cycle would repeat, slash-and-burn style.
The problem was that players couldn’t actually do much in
TinyMUDs except invite one another to admire their latest piece
of what might as well have been wallpaper. One player, Stephen
White, decided in 1990 to extend the functionality of TinyMUD
and wrote TinyMUCK (muck being a kind of mud). Using this as
his template, he then produced MOO (MUD, Object Oriented).
MOO introduced a fully functional scripting language (as such inworld programming languages12 are called) and thus brought
LPC-like capabilities to social-oriented virtual worlds. MOO had
two important offspring: Pavel Curtis’ LambdaMOO (which was
to become a favorite of journalists, academics, and social misfits)
and, via CoolMUD, ColdMUD (an attempt to create a softwareengineering quality virtual world authoring system).
MOO’s descendants have found a niche in the educational world,
as they are easy to use and (like LPMUDs) can demonstrate the
principles of programming to youngsters without scaring the
wits out of them. They were not, however, the only important
codebase family to come out of TinyMUCK.
Larry Foard released TinyMUSH later in 1990. The “MUSH” part
originally didn’t mean anything special, but was later retrofitted
as “Multi-User Shared Hallucination.” The TinyMUSH codebase
introduced several advanced features, such as event triggering
and software automatons (known as puppets), which together
facilitated role-playing. Consequently, most of the derivatives of
11 Those that had Internet access would. It was by no means universal at the
time, and not every player couldfind another home when his or her local
TinyMUD was shut down.
12 So are some out-of-world programming languages, as we’ll see later in this
chapter.
16 Chapter 1
TinyMUSH (known as MUSHes) are role-playing in nature: What
you do defines what you are, rather than the reverse.
From a non-historical perspective, the significant property of
MOOs, MUSHes, and other descendants of TinyMUCK (known
as MUCKs) is that they don’t have computer-controlled
monsters for players to seek out and, within the context of the
virtual world, kill. Players of these classes of virtual worlds are
the ones most likely to use the term MU*, reserving MUD to
mean those games that do have computer-controlled monsters
for players to seek out and kill13
.
The third age of virtual worlds was thus a period of huge
expansion. More people sampled virtual worlds than ever
before. Indeed, a study of traffic on the NSFnet backbone in 1993
showed that just over 10% of the bits belonged to MUDs; in
other words, before the advent of the World Wide Web (WWW)
MUDs constituted some 10% of the Internet!
There were fewer positive consequences, however. Whereas in
earlier times anyone who wanted to run a virtual world would
have to write one from first principles, the sudden
preponderance of codebases meant that this was no longer the
case. If you wanted to run a virtual world, you simply
downloaded an off-the-shelf one and voila!—one virtual world!
Although in theory developers could change any aspect of what
they had downloaded (particularly for LPMUDs and TinyMUD
derivatives), in practice most people simply built on what they
already had. This meant that two worlds using the same
codebase would probably have the same basic geography and
physics, with multiple extensions. Although some old-timers
13 In this context, MUDs are frequently dismissed somewhat haughtily as
inferior game forms. Players of MUDs reciprocate by calling the MU* brigade
carebears.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 17
have complained that this leads to homogeneity and thereby
stifles creativity, that’s not the main bugbear. Rather, it’s that if
designers don’t understand why the partial design they begin
with does what it does (and doesn’t do what it doesn’t do), how
can they be sure their changes are for the best? Come to that,
how can they be sure the template they begin with isn’t itself
flawed in some way?
Were only undergraduates and amateur enthusiasts considered,
the third age of virtual worlds is still very much upon us.
Several thousand LPMUDs, DikuMUDs, MOOs, MUSHes, and
MUCKs exist, some of them with impressive numbers of
players. However, the torch of innovation was soon to be picked
up by a different bearer—business.
The Fourth Age: 1995–1997
MUDs might very well have been called SOGs had things turned
out differently.
Around the same time that Roy Trubshaw began work on what
was to become MUD1, Alan Klietz wrote Sceptre of Goth on the
CDC Cyber run by MECC (the Minnesota Educational Computer
Consortium). The game (also known as Empire and The Phoenix)
was based on an earlier MECC game called Milieu. It was
developed completely independently; its mechanics owed more
to Dungeons & Dragons than did MUD1’s, particularly in its use
of character classes.
Sensing the commercial possibilities, Klietz ported it to run on a
PC and ran it as a dial-up game. It met with local success, so
incarnations were set up in several major U.S. cities. Klietz’s
company (GamBits) then sold the software to another company.
Unfortunately, this second company ran into severe legal
problems and ran out of money. Sceptre of Goth passed to a
18 Chapter 1
creditor, and was never released again. Thus, through bad luck,
the first commercial virtual world did not have the impact that
it might have had, although it did make enough of a mark to
influence the design of some later codebases, in particular
Mordor.
In the UK, offshoots of the MUD1 family tree had done well, but
were stymied by the system of high telephone charges that
were then in place in that part of the world. When it costs more
to connect to a game than it does to play it, there will inevitably
be problems. People were running up phone bills of £2,000 to
£3,000 a quarter—this at a time when the average salary was
under £9,000 for an entire year.
The situation was little better in the rest of Europe; Gods did
well in Germany, but couldn’t really be said to have cracked the
market. Shades, released in a French translation for the Minitel
teletext system, made nowhere near the £70,000 or more a year
it had been clearing in the UK.
The picture was different in the U.S., where local phone calls
were basically free. CompuServe recruited over a million
subscribers to its system, charging them at premium rates to
access data. Games formed a big part of its profit: Whereas it
takes only two minutes to check how your stocks are
performing, you might spend two hours playing a game.
However, CompuServe did not promote its games, fearing that
to do so would discourage parents from signing up to the
service lest it corrupt their children.
Rivals to CompuServe were not so coy. GEnie was launched in
1985 by the former head of games at CompuServe, Bill Louden.
Naturally, it put games to the fore, as did another 1985 start-up
called QuantumLink. Although QuantumLink carried a very
influential precursor to graphical virtual worlds (Lucasfilm’s
Habitat, designed by F. Randall Farmer and Chip Morningstar)
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 19
and was destined to become the mighty America Online (AOL),
at the time it was GEnie that drew all the attention. Genie’s
games-first strategy worked well, in that by the early 1990s
hard-core gamers accounted for nearly 70% of GEnie’s revenue
{Erratum: it was closer to 40%.}. However, GEnie suffered from
lack of investment (most of its profits went back to parent
company General Electric) and the fact that CompuServe’s
concerns about the side effects of promoting games were not
entirely unfounded. At this time, people still needed “noble
content” such as news or educational products as an excuse to
sign up for a service, even if they were only intending to play
games when they got there.
Much of GEnie’s flowering at this time was due to the efforts of
its Games Product Manager, Jessica Mulligan {Erratum: the
legacy of Bill Louden’s early deals were a more significant
factor}. Jessica had worked for QuantumLink, where she had
recommended acquiring the Advanced Dungeons & Dragons
license for an online game (which was eventually to become
NeverWinter Nights). When QuantumLink began to deemphasize games, she moved to GEnie. There, she assembled an
impressive stable of some of the finest games of the day.
Because of her, GEnie was the launch point for many classic
online games, including two very important virtual worlds:
Gemstone II {Errata: all these references to Gemstone should be
GemStone, and GemStone II’s official name was Gemstone ][, with
square brackets rather than Roman numerals. Also, it was Jess’s
predecessor, Jay Saur, who was primarily responsible for
bringing Gemstone ][ to Genie.} in 1988 and Dragon’s Gate in 1990
(a year in which earlier UK favorite Federation II also made it to
GEnie).
Gemstone had been created by David Whatley and his company,
Simutronics {Erratum: Simutronics was not incorporated at the
time and was then known as Crystal Blade.}, in 1987; the II was
added when it went live on GEnie. Simutronics’ expertise grew
20 Chapter 1
from BBS technology, and Gemstone II was a descendant of
neither MUD1 nor Sceptre of Goth {Erratum: following Sceptre of
Goth’s demise, five of the people who worked on it went on to
create content for GemStone ][, so it’s unfair to say it wasn’t
influenced by SoG. Furthermore, David had also heard of Island
of Kesmai when he wrote GemStone.}.
In 1989, Darrin Hyrup, the lead programmer on another
Simutronics game (Orb Wars), left to join a company called
Adventures Unlimited Software, Inc. (AUSI). AUSI was started in
1984 by entrepreneurial programmer Mark Jacobs to run a textbased virtual world named Aradath he had written
independently. Like Sceptre of Goth, Aradath ran on a home
computer dial-up system, but unlike all other virtual worlds, for
the next decade it charged its users a flat fee to play. Although it
was turned down by QuantumLink, its promise was enough to
tempt Darrin to join Mark to write Dragon’s Gate. This was a
smart move.
At the end of the pre-WWW era in 1993, five U.S. services
dominated the online market: CompuServe, Prodigy, AOL,
Delphi, and GEnie. Smaller, games-specific services, such as
MPG-Net and the ImagiNation Network, were also players in
the games market (or tried to be). These services had a
stranglehold on virtual world development: If you couldn’t get
your game on one of them, you were in for a hard time. At this
point, third-age virtual worlds were still the biggest and most
important.
The WWW changed it all. People were suddenly excited by the
concept of “online.” They flocked in droves to those services that
offered Internet connection (which had previously been mainly
the preserve of colleges). Some, such as AOL, embraced it.
Others, particularly the ever-conservative CompuServe, tried to
weather the storm and failed. A price war in 1993 among the
major services had made Internet access affordable for all. Come
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 21
1995, hordes of inexpert computer users were knocking on the
door, looking for interesting things. Some of them—rather a lot
of them, in fact—wanted to play games.
Thus, the short but extraordinary fourth age of virtual worlds
began. AOL went for the throat and signed up Gemstone III,
Dragon’s Gate, and Federation II (it already had NeverWinter
Nights). In common with other services, its business model was
based on time spent connected to its system, a legacy of how
computer bureaus used to charge for mainframe timeslices in
the days when not every company had its own hardware. Also
like everyone else, if its customers were accessing content
provided externally, AOL paid a royalty. Unlike most of its
competitors, however, it paid a fair royalty14
. Unlike all its
competitors, it picked up a vast user base15
.
The consequence of this was that games like Gemstone III and
Dragon’s Gate were making their authors over a million dollars a
month {Erratum: they were being played for over a million
hours a month, but weren’t making their authors a million
dollars a month; GemStone ][ grossed around $10m for
Simutronics in 1997.}. Even the “failing” NeverWinter Nights
(NWN) took around $5,000,000 in 1996 {Erratum: it was more
like $3m-$4m.}, despite being limited to 500 simultaneous
players. It was an amazing time to be in the industry—if your
game was on AOL. If not, it was hugely frustrating.
Disaster struck when the business model suddenly changed.
14 CompuServe in particular was resented among developers for its arrogant
“tell me why we only deserve 92% of the income that our customers generate”
approach.
15 This was basically because they gave away the client software, I should add.
I don’t mean to imply that it was due to their paying a fair royalty to game
designers!
22 Chapter 1
Small companies that used to run local BBSs began setting
themselves up as Internet Service Providers. Initially, they used
the same, pay-per-hour tariffs as the big boys. Then, in response
to customer pressure, they broke ranks and switched to flat rate
charging. AOL followed suit in December 1996, so as not to lose
customers to these upstarts.
Unfortunately, AOL’s contracts with external information
providers assumed a per-hour charge, which AOL had to honor.
They tried to persuade game developers to accept a flat fee or a
much reduced per-hour royalty, and some indeed went along
with it. Others, however, held their ground. It was their opinion
that the reason their games were successful was because they
were good games; it had nothing to do with standing directly in
the flow of AOL’s newbie hose.
A compromise dual-pricing scheme was implemented similar to
one introduced by GEnie some years earlier, whereby
“premium” content (that is, games) was charged by the hour and
everything else was flat rate. This was not a great success,
though, and by mid-1997 the gravy train had stopped running.
Most of the virtual worlds that had been on the big services set
themselves up as independent games on the (now easy-access)
Internet. After all, if they were able to keep all the money that
players paid, they could afford to shed 80% of their player base
and still make a huge profit. Unfortunately, they had not
anticipated three major obstacles that would humble them
greatly:
1. Most of their players objected to paying for a game they had
previously considered to be free. Only the hard core—around
5% to 10% of the total—ever made the move.
2. Attracting newbies is very, very difficult. As existing players
gradually drift away, from where do their replacements
come?
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 23
3. Over a thousand virtual worlds were already accessible via
the Internet for free— the LPMUDs, DikuMUDs, MOOs,
MUSHes, and MUCKs. Sure, they were “free, and worth every
penny,” but hey, free is free!
These for-pay virtual worlds (and others) do still exist, and do
still make money, but it’s nowhere near the amount they did in
the halcyon days of 1995–1997. It would be nice to think that
developers have learned from this the dangers of overestimating the intrinsic value of their products; nice, but
unlikely.
Off-the-shelf codebases are free to use and free to play, but they
are not freeware. They come with strict licensing conditions
that preclude their being used commercially. This means that
there is still some innovation, as people who want to make
money from virtual worlds must perforce write their own from
scratch. The days when people would willingly pay more per
hour to access a commercial virtual world than they would later
pay per month16 are long gone, however.
Yet all was not entirely lost. At its peak, Gemstone III on AOL
was attracting 2,000–2,500 players simultaneously. In theory, if
a product could attract players in sufficiently large numbers—
say, 10 times this number in total—then it might be possible to
levy an inexpensive monthly fee and still make a respectable
profit.
In 1997, Origin Systems Inc. (OSI) launched Ultima Online.
16 In 1990, GEnie was charging nearly $20 an hour for daytime access—more
than double what the major games were charging for an entire month a
decade later.
24 Chapter 1
The Fifth Age: 1997–Present
There had been graphical virtual worlds before.
The seminal PLATO (Programmed Logic for Automatic
Teaching Operations) system went live at the University of
Illinois way back in 1961, and many games were written to take
advantage of both its network connectivity and graphicscapable plasma display units. Some of these laid down principles
that would greatly influence the development of later computer
games; some came close to being virtual worlds; some actually
were virtual worlds.
Orthanc, by Paul Resch, Larry Kemp, and Eric Hagstrom, was an
overhead-view graphical game that, although not implementing
a shared world, nevertheless allowed communication between
individual players. It was written as early as 1973. Jim
Schwaiger’s 1977 game Oubliette (inspired by Dungeons &
Dragons and Chuck Miller’s earlier multiplayer game, Mines of
Moria) had a first-person point of view and used line graphics to
render the scene ahead. It had persistent characters, but was
not a persistent world. Also, the interaction it allowed between
characters was very limited; it was almost there, but not quite.
In late 1979, the first ever fully-functional graphical virtual
world was released: Avatar. Written by a group of students to
out-do Oubliette, it was to become the most successful PLATO
game ever—it accounted for 6% of all the hours spent on the
system between September 1978 and May 198517. Again using a
Fantasy setting, it introduced the concept of spawning to
repopulate areas automatically after players killed all the
monsters.
17 Source: http://www.thinkofit.com/plato/dwplato.htm.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 25
Despite the fact that PLATO was very important in the
development of computer games in general, its virtual worlds
had little external impact. This was almost certainly because the
twin strengths of the PLATO system—its fast network and
superior graphics—would not generally become available to
home users for another 15 years. If your screen can only display
text and your modem only runs at 300 baud, online pictures
aren’t exactly a major priority. Insofar as the history of
graphical virtual worlds is concerned, the second to fourth ages
are pretty much dark ages.
Some of the second age virtual worlds almost went graphical.
There were plans to produce Atari ST and Commodore Amiga
clients for Bloodstone, a virtual world by Robert Muir that ran on
Microlink, but they amounted to nothing. The co-ordinatebased Mosaic system (nothing to do with the browser of that
name) pioneered by the MirrorWorld team was ideal material for
conversion to graphics, but Pip Cordrey was vehemently antigraphics and blocked the move. Others toyed with the idea, only
to be put off by the expenses involved.
A graphical virtual world that did influence others was Island of
Kesmai, (IOK) written by Kelton Flinn and John Taylor in 1981. It
grew from a six-player game called Dungeons of Kesmai that the
pair had completed a year earlier, and was independent of the
other work on virtual worlds going on at the time (the pair
hadn’t even heard of ADVENT, let alone MUD1!). IOK debuted on
CompuServe in December, 1985.
The game did not have graphics as such. What it did have was a
display that used individual letters and other ASCII characters
to represent a bird’s-eye view of the immediate vicinity. Because
of the ersatz graphics, the degree of interaction allowed
between players wasn’t as high as in a purely text-oriented
game (a state of affairs that continues to this day), but it was
good enough to qualify IOK as a virtual world.
26 Chapter 1
The graphics capabilities of home computers gradually
improved, and it was therefore only a matter of time before
someone wrote a game that coupled an IOK-style tessellated
world with a hardware-specific means of displaying it. Indeed,
by the early 1990s the Kesmai Corporation had already done it
for their multiplayer flight simulator game, Air Warrior, which
had clients for the PC, Atari ST, Commodore Amiga, and Apple
Macintosh. The basic principle was for the virtual world
software itself (the server) to send data to software running on
the home user’s computer (the client), which it could use as the
basis to construct an image18
.
Although Kesmai eventually produced a (disappointing)
graphical version of IOK called Legends of Kesmai, they were well
beaten to the punch by NeverWinter Nights (1991 on AOL),
Kingdom of Drakkar (1992 on MPG-net), and Shadows of Yserbius
(1992 on ImagiNation Network). These games basically took the
same approach: a bird’s-eye view of a 2D world built from
squares, with flat sprites to represent players, objects, walls, and
things to be fought. They maintained separate text areas for
information, descriptions, and communications.
This is a very effective way to do it. The bandwidth and server
load requirements are comparatively light, the design tools are
cheap to develop, and you can create large, interesting worlds
with a fair degree of interaction among the players. Such worlds
can lack flexibility—you won’t see many circular buildings in
them—but they pay for it by their ease of creation. The scale is
usually an issue, in that there’s a conflict between the amounts
of space in the virtual world that characters appear to occupy
18 Many players seem naïvely to imagine that an entire image is transmitted
each time one needs to be displayed, as with TV pictures. This is not,
however, yet the case.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 27
(because of the fidelity of the graphics) and the amount they
seemingly ought to occupy (because they represent people), but
it’s nothing too serious.
Note that although all tessellated worlds are essentially 2D, they
don’t have to be shown in the same, boring, map-like way that a
newspaper typically displays a chessboard. Instead, they can be
shown isometrically. By fixing the camera (that is, the player’s
viewpoint) at an angle other than directly overhead (say, at 60°),
the impression of a 3D world can be given.
This is sometimes referred to as a 2
1⁄2D world. It was inevitable
that as soon as computer video cards were up to the job, new
games would appear in the more realistic-looking 2½D rather
than plain old 2D19
.
At this point, the story changes continents.
In Europe and North America, individuals wanting to use the
Internet for fun would generally do so from home. This was not
necessarily the case in other countries. In particular, the trend
in South Korea was to use Internet cafés, where people could
share their online experiences in a friendly, social atmosphere
(with broadband connections). Large chains of such
establishments soon spread across the country. This presented
Korean game developers with a business model not available in
the West: licensing game access to the Internet cafés, rather
than to the players.
Two companies took advantage of this: Nexon launched The
Kingdom of the Winds in 1996, with NCSoft’s Lineage following
19 Strictly speaking, any implementation of a 3D space that fakes height is
2½D. This means that games like Doom, which have a first-person
perspective but can’t implement bridges, can also be described as 2½D.
28 Chapter 1
in 1997. Lineage was designed by Jake Song, who had previously
worked on The Kingdom of the Winds (TKOW) and was later
voted South Korea’s best game designer. Both TKOW and
Lineage used a 2D perspective, but the latter had vastly superior
graphics and almost immediately became the virtual world with
the most real-world players anywhere. It opened in Taiwan and
was a huge hit there, too. Attempts to repeat this success in the
U.S. market failed, however; for some reason, the game did not
appeal to American tastes. It was therefore almost completely
ignored in the West, until something happened that forced
developers to pay attention: Revenue figures for Lineage in the
first quarter of 2000 were posted at 6,500 million Won, that is
over five million dollars. Virtual worlds were becoming a global
phenomenon, and Korea was a leading marketplace.
In terms of advances in game design, though, the plot returns to
the U.S. in 1997.
Although The Kingdom of The Winds predated it, the product
that truly proved virtual worlds had come of age was OSI’s
Ultima Online (UO).
It is hard to understate the impact that this work had on the
consciousness of developers and publishers. Prior to Ultima
Online, virtual worlds had been regarded as all potential: It was
clear from the devotion they inspired that they could probably
make pots of money, but as no one had managed to do so
outside of peculiar market conditions few companies were
willing to invest in producing one. This was soon to change.
When Ultima Online garnered 50,000 subscribers within 3
months, people took notice. When it broke 100,000 within a
year, jaws dropped. Never mind the substantial income from
retail sales: 100,000 people were each paying $9.95 per month
having already bought the game—and none of that money was
going to retailers!
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 29
OSI was directly taking 12 million dollars a year from that one
virtual world!
Ultima Online set the standard: 100,000 subscribers by the end
of year one is the benchmark—anything less than that, and a
graphical game-oriented virtual world can’t honestly call itself a
success.
So how did Ultima Online manage to pick up so many
subscribers so quickly? Part of it was being the right product at
the right time, of course, but the Ultima name—one of the best
loved and respected by role-playing gamers—was probably the
main reason people were so keen to try it. The virtual world it
promised really caught the game-playing public’s imagination.
Trying a game doesn’t mean that people will continue to play it,
though. With ordinary boxed games, the publishers don’t
particularly care whether anyone actually plays their products,
so long as they buy them. Ultima Online had to be good enough
that people would want to play—and would shell out nearly 10
bucks a month to do so.
That people did play is a tribute to the game’s design team, led
by Raph Koster. Raph had a background in virtual world design,
having worked on 1992’s Worlds of Carnage (the first DikuMUD
to have an embedded scripting language) before moving on to
found LegendMUD in 1994 with Kristen Koster (his wife), Rick
Delashmit, and others. In 1995, Delashmit signed up as lead
programmer for Ultima Online and recommended the Kosters to
OSI.
LegendMUD was itself an innovative game, boasting a number of
features to promote role-playing that had never been
implemented before. For example, unlike other DikuMUD
derivatives, LegendMUD was classless (players don’t elect to be
30 Chapter 1
fighters, magic-users, healers, thieves, or whatever); this
concept was to shape the design of Ultima Online powerfully.
The wide-ranging playing experience of the designers meant
that they could draw on ideas from many other codebases, too.
Perhaps most importantly, however, Ultima Online was
conceived from the start to be a richer and deeper virtual world
than a typical MUD, with an emphasis on community building,
player-driven action, and the ability to accommodate different
playing styles. These were tremendously important insights;
they had a powerful impact on the graphical virtual worlds that
appeared in the two to three years following UO’s release, and
are now regarded as absolute prerequisites in the designs for
new virtual worlds. Although later games could take aspects of
UO on board, their designers were not always aware of the
reasoning that had led the UO team to include or exclude some
concept or other20
. This led to balance issues (among others),
and is one of the reasons why, in design terms, UO remained
pre-eminent until the arrival of Star Wars Galaxies in 2002. It is
no coincidence that the lead designer of Star Wars Galaxies
(SWG) was also Raph Koster.
UO nevertheless did have its problems, the two principal ones
being:
• It was at times too innovative. Some of the ideas it fieldtested did not work as planned and had to be altered.
Examples: The means by which players were punished for
attacking each other’s characters wasn’t effective; the
detailed ecological model employed broke down when
players rapidly killed everything that moved; the economy
collapsed after a bug led to hyper-inflation.
20 This is a theme I will return to again and again in this book. You already
noticed, huh?
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 31
• It was a victim of its own success. Although OSI was
expecting tens of thousands of players, they weren’t
expecting hundreds of thousands of them. The sheer
number of people involved meant that the pressure was on
to correct any problems as soon after discovery as possible.
This caused several management decisions to be made that,
in retrospect, set precedents, which perhaps ought not to
have been set. Customer service doesn’t scale well or rapidly.
All in all, UO was a game ahead of its time, but not so far ahead
as to be regarded as a failure.
The same could not be said of Archetype Interactive’s Meridian
59.
Launched a year ahead of UO (after the company had been
bought by 3DO), it was the first graphical virtual world since the
days of Avatar to employ a first-person point of view (that is,
where the screen shows what the player’s virtual character sees,
rather than what someone sitting on a low cloud would see—if
they could remove rooftops).
Because players could move around and view their
surroundings from almost any angle, Meridian 59 gave a far
greater sense of being a 3D virtual world than did UO or
Lineage. Indeed, this is the kind of viewpoint people typically
mean when they’re talking about a 3D world or viewpoint in
respect of any computer game21
.
Meridian 59 (M59) was designed by Mike Sellers and Damion
Schubert, the latter having been recommended by Raph Koster
(who had accepted a job at OSI by then so was unavailable). It
21 Actually, it used a DOOM-like engine and was, technically speaking,
therefore only 2½D.
32 Chapter 1
was intended to become the first “3D MUD,” and in this it
succeeded.
However, it was not the huge success that it might have been
(and that the designers of other in-development graphical
virtual worlds feared it would become) mainly due to a lack of
experience. The designers, the developers, and especially the
publishers (3DO) made several mistakes that are classic to
virtual worlds and therefore should have been easily avoided. To
be fair, the designers did know their stuff, but they were
working to a small budget and a short deadline.
Among the mistakes made were
• Allowing access permissions for certain features (for
example, in-game shops) to be determined by the (soonto-be-hacked) client software.
• Not fully testing the software. It was very stable, but one
particular showstopping bug rendered the in-game
currency completely worthless overnight.
• Community-alienating changes of business plan.
Originally costing each player $10 per month, they
switched to $2.49 per day (“but never more than $30 a
month”) and lost a third of their players in the process
22
.
• Self-defeating customer service work (due to a “no
comment” policy).
Of course, these errors were also made by many of the virtual
worlds that followed Meridian 59 (indeed, they’re still being
made today). These other virtual worlds didn’t all fail, however,
so why did M59?
22 Their player base had stopped growing by then, but this hastily shrank it.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 33
M59’s problem was that it didn’t garner enough players early on
to weather its storms. There are several reasons for this, but
they all come down to the fact that it was launched too soon.
M59 is remembered for being the first 3D virtual world; if it
hadn’t gone to market prematurely, then it wouldn’t have been
able to claim this title, but instead of being the pioneer it could
well have become the paradigm.
What M59 did wrong that actually hurt it was
• It had poor marketing. Few people outside the online
gaming community knew it existed. The computer games
press didn’t care about it.
• Its graphics didn’t compare well to those of other 3D games
around at the time (particularly Quake’s). This is probably
why the computer press didn’t care about it.
• It had insufficient content. The world felt very small, and it
lacked many features traditional to the Fantasy genre that
potential players were surprised to find missing.
• There weren’t enough people with Internet connections
when it launched. Ironically, if they hadn’t launched early to
get the drop on Ultima Online then there almost certainly
would have been.
In other words, it wasn’t the design that killed it but the
business decisions made. Design is hugely important, but it
can’t do everything.
Even so, Meridian 59 did a lot of things right. In particular, it
released expansion sets to keep players interested and (until it
changed its pricing scheme) it made the total number of players
important, rather than the total number of hard-core players. It
also ran multiple incarnations of its virtual world on different
servers, some of which it licensed to other countries (which
although it had been done commercially back in the days of
Shades had by then gone out of fashion).
34 Chapter 1
Although the M59 team was inexperienced to begin with, they
soon learned. M59 graduates are now among the most soughtafter personnel in the industry. Mike Sellers (who left before
M59 shipped) went on to become lead designer of The Sims
Online; Damion Schubert accepted the same position for Ultima
Online 2 before setting up as an independent creative consultant
and eventually winding up working on the much-anticipated
Shadowbane23; producer Rich Vogel took over from Starr Long at
Ultima Online shortly before that game’s launch, later beating all
opposition to land the plum position of producer for Star Wars
Galaxies.
The main reason for M59’s only modest success was that it
came to market a touch too soon. In 1996, few people had a
graphics card in their PCs and their modems were 14400 baud.
M59 therefore had to be written for this level of client hardware,
or no one would have played it.
A year later, when UO launched, prospective players had
upgraded and the OSI team was able to deliver a far more
feature-rich product. UO had a somewhat bigger budget, too.
UO wounded M59, but not mortally. The fatal24 blow was only to
come in the spring of 1999, with the launch of 989 Studios,
EverQuest. {Erratum: EQ was not responsible for M59’s decline,
it was merely the last nail in the coffin.}
If ever there was a case of being in the right place at the right
time, EverQuest (EQ) is it. It was basically a DikuMUD with a
graphical client bolted on—the similarities are so close that
23 http://www.shadowbane.com
24 As with many of the characters in them, “fatal” is only a relative term for
virtual worlds. Meridian 59 was resurrected a few years later, and can now be
found at http://www.neardeathstudios.com.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 35
under legal threat its server programmers were forced to sign
sworn statements to the effect that they didn’t use any actual
DikuMUD code in EverQuest25
.
Graphically, EverQuest took the same first-person 3D view as
Meridian 59, but allowed the camera to roam instead of fixing it
to the character’s eyes. If players wanted a bird’s-eye view or to
see their own character from behind, they could do so. The
graphics also occupied a good deal more of the screen, which
greatly improved players’ feelings of being immersed in the
environment.
In terms of gameplay, EverQuest wasn’t especially deep
(although neither was it shallow). Had it been launched even a
few months later, it would probably have had only moderate
success; it was never exactly innovative, and there were other
games in development which would have made it look inferior
by comparison. However, it was launched at exactly the right
moment. Its designers (Steve Clover, Brad McQuaid, and Bill
Trost) had done a sound job.
It looked good, there were plenty of computer gamers actively
seeking an online game to play, its DikuMUD heritage
guaranteed a compelling experience, and Ultima Online was
getting bad publicity because of its unpopular way of handling
combat between players’ characters and its generally poor
newbie experience.
EverQuest had no great publicity campaign, which is probably
just as well: News of this beautiful virtual world spread by word
of mouth so rapidly that it was only through good fortune that
enough Internet bandwidth became available in San Diego
25 There are copies at http://www.dikumud.com/diku/swornstatement.asp.
36 Chapter 1
(where the servers were located) to cope with the demand26
. EQ
overtook UO in terms of subscriber numbers within six months
and its usage figures were ordained to grow relentlessly, month
after month, for years.
EQ’s developers were just as inexperienced as M59’s, and they
also made a number of novice errors. Indeed, their customer
relations department was so systematically bad that at times it
seemed people were playing in spite of their efforts, not because
of them. So why did EQ put the final nail in M59’s coffin, rather
than suffering a similar experience itself?
Essentially, the answer is that EQ reached a critical mass of
players.
Whatever the reasons people had for starting to play the game,
they continued to play because of the other people they had met
there. EQ was constructed to encourage players to form small
groups and play regularly with one another; if the team was
short a member, players would persuade their real-world
friends to make up the numbers. This bonding was something
M59 lacked, and in due course led to EQ’s all-conquering
progress.
EQ’s impact on subsequent graphical virtual world design was
profound. It became the de facto paradigm for the genre. This
had three main consequences:
• Players who “grew up” on EverQuest viewed its user
interface, gameplay, and feature set as standard. New games
26 It is a not entirely unfounded rumor that around this time its competitor
Ultima Online had more incoming Internet bandwidth than New York City.
Before then, Meridian 59 had regularly caused the Internet to slow down—in
Silicon Valley—on patch days.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 37
that did not conform to this were viewed as flawed. This is
not a new phenomenon. Players of Shades who tried out
other games were often disparaging about what were
actually superior (but non-Shades) ways of doing things.
Similarly, after AOL purchased the ImagiNation network
and dropped NeverWinter Nights, Meridian 59 received a flood
of refugees who then proceeded to demand every NWN
feature that M59 didn’t already have, irrespective of how
appropriate it was to the game.
• The sheer amount of money EverQuest generated caused
developers considering writing a virtual world to jump on
the bandwagon. Within two years of EverQuest’s launch, over
a hundred graphical virtual worlds had been announced as
being in development, of which the vast majority were
EverQuest near-clones.
• EverQuest sucked in newbies who might otherwise have
tried some other game, thereby depressing the market for
the games that immediately followed it and forcing them to
survive on their ability to attract the non-mainstream
gamers.
One of the products to suffer was Turbine’s Asheron’s Call.
Designed by Toby Ragaini (lead), Chris Foster, Eri Izawa, and
Chris Pierson, it launched nine months after EverQuest (at least
a year late, due to the inexperience of the production team27).
It broke new ground with a number of inventive ideas28
,
primary among which was the story arc: Structures, objects, and
new functionality would be added to (and in some cases,
removed from) the virtual world on a regular basis (monthly) to
unfold an overall narrative.
27 Ultima Online and EverQuest weren’t exactly launched on time either,
though….
28 Inventive for graphical worlds, that is; textual worlds, as usual, got there
first.
38 Chapter 1
Asheron’s Call (AC) also had some technical innovations that
impacted virtual world design. One of the more irritating things
about EQ was that it partitioned its world into zones. Rather
than having a single, expensive computer to act as a server for
the whole virtual world, each zone ran on its own computer as
part of a cluster that comprised the server. Players moving from
one zone to another would experience some delay while any
initialization information concerning the new zone was
transmitted to their PC. Once in the zone they were sharing its
governing computer with only a fraction of the other players in
the game, and therefore the response was good; however,
moving between zones was a pain.
AC didn’t have zones, which meant it presented itself as a single,
seamless world—a far more player-friendly proposition. It still
used a cluster of computers to manage the world, but didn’t
assign individual machines to specific zones. Instead, it used a
technique called dynamic load balancing to determine which
cluster member was in charge of which location set. If players
congregated their characters in one area of the virtual world,
the server responsible for it would offload part of that area (and
the players associated with it) to another, less heavily loaded
machine. Similar distributed server technology had been used
by Nexon in 1999 (the year AC launched) to cram 12,263 users in
a single incarnation of The Kingdom of the Winds, albeit with a
tessellated 21⁄2D world rather than a fully 3D one.
AC managed to build up a player base of around 80,000 by the
end of its first year— 20,000 short of the total needed for it to
be considered an unqualified success. Had it launched before
EQ, as originally planned, the story might have been rather
different.
By the end of 2000, the state of play among the “big three”
virtual worlds was as follows:
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 39
• Ultima Online (launched 1997) had 230,000+ subscribers from
boxed unit sales of 380,000+ and expansion pack sales of
100,000+.
• EverQuest (launched early 1999) had 300,000+ subscribers
from boxed unit sales of 600,000+ and expansion pack29
sales of 300,000+.
• Asheron’s Call (launched late 1999) had 90,000+ subscribers
from 200,000+30 boxed unit sales. It hadn’t released any
expansion packs.
What is most interesting here is not so much that EQ had a
staggering 300,000 subscribers, but that it had lost a
staggering 300,000 players who originally purchased the boxed
unit. UO’s retention rate, at 60% overall, was significantly better.
Although continuing good word-of-mouth and large-scale
advertising campaigns brought EQ yet more swathes of players
in the coming years, its churn only got worse.
The next significant release of a graphical virtual world was
Funcom’s Anarchy Online in June 2001. The first such world to
be written by Europeans (a Norwegian/Irish team), it was a
departure in that it took a Science Fiction theme rather than the
traditional31 Fantasy. To provide some context, lead designer
Gaute Godager buttressed it with a story arc. Unfortunately, the
game suffered a disastrous launch, from which it took some
time to recover. Consequently, it also failed to accumulate
100,000 players within 12 months. This was a shame, because
its overall design was quite attractive.
29 The first of these included the EQ client itself, but subsequent ones didn’t.
30 Estimated.
31 Traditional for graphical virtual worlds—text-based ones had long since
expanded into other genres.
40 Chapter 1
By contrast, the launch of Mythic Entertainment’s Dark Age of
Camelot in October 2001 was a model of how to do things
right. This is perhaps not surprising, given that Mythic was a
direct descendant of AUSI, the company responsible for
Dragon’s Gate. The design team, under the guidance of Mark
Jacobs, created a world that was both familiar (from the
Camelot legends) and superficially compelling (because of its
realm versus realm (RvR) approach to combat between players’
characters32).
These factors made the game attractive to a large constituency,
and well-targeted marketing let potential players know. Dark
Age of Camelot (DAoC) racked up 200,000 subscribers by May
2002, easily supplanting Asheron’s Call as the third most popular
virtual world in the West.
All these games are PC-based. It was not surprising, therefore,
that console companies with their enormous installed user
bases and tightly-regulated platforms would want to get in on
the act. The SEGA Dreamcast was bold enough to take the first
step (with Phantasy Star Online33), but the company did not
really understand the concept of Internet games and the
venture was not a success.
Sony, as owners of EverQuest, did understand it, however, and in
May 2002 launched Square’s Final Fantasy XI on the PlayStation
2. By the end of August, they had 120,000 users in Japan, each
paying a monthly fee of ¥1,280 ($10.71 at the time). Although this
qualified the game as a success, Sony’s overheads were such
that 200,000 users were needed to break even. Their target was
32 This splits the player base into three factions that can fight each other in
certain areas of no man’s land. Anarchy Online did something similar but was
less successful. The concept had already been around in text-based virtual
worlds for many years, of course, but not on Dark Age of Camelot’s scale.
33 http://www.sonicteam.com/pso/
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 41
400,000 users, but they could only envision reaching that
number by releasing a PC client. This is not unreasonable:
Consoles are secure development platforms, but not so secure
that a developer would be foolish enough to trust a client not to
be hacked. Therefore, there is no inherent technical reason why
a virtual world targeted at console owners should not have a PC
client too. It is likely that in the future, major virtual worlds will
be expected to support a range of platforms; how this affects the
design of the world itself depends on the nature of the lowest
common denominator of those platforms34
.
And so we come to today35
.
The Sims Online (TSO), launched December 2002, has yet to
break the 100,000 subscribers mark. Given the popularity of the
Sims franchise, this has to be considered disappointing. My
guess is that if the publishers hold their nerve, things will
improve in the long term. At the moment, too many people are
treating it as a game, then complaining that its only gameplay
involves making pizzas for one another. The Sims is more a toy
than a game, and the same is true of The Sims Online. Gamers
are typically early adopters, but The Sims Online’s core players
aren’t. If they come in sufficient numbers to replace those
gamers who leave, all will be well. Nevertheless, TSO’s slow start
could have some knock-on effects for virtual worlds in general,
depending on how the marketers who used it for product
placement assess its less than spectacular beginnings.
The Sims Online had over 100,000 beta-testers and has sold over
100,000 boxes. Large numbers of beta-testers are currently
quite fashionable: Star Wars Galaxies hit 150,000 in August
34 EverQuest’s PlayStation 2 debut, EverQuest Online Adventure, barely
qualifies as being a virtual world.
35 March 2003 at the time of writing.
42 Chapter 1
2002, and even soon-to-launch EVE: The Second Genesis36—
hardly a guaranteed hit—is claiming 140,000. Whether this
trend will continue in the light of the experience of The Sims
Online, remains to be seen. Skeptics might be forgiven for
wondering how many of these beta-testers are beta-testing
several virtual worlds simultaneously, and therefore whether
the perceived marketing benefit of a large beta-test is as strong
as is normally assumed.
There is further evidence from the experience of Asheron’s Call
2
37 (AC2). This virtual world also launched December 2002; it
has beautiful graphics, but again seems to be struggling to
attract newbies. Original AC players have been reluctant to
switch over to it, and its attempts to pander to popular player
opinion by diluting anything inconvenient (character “death,”
the economy) may have backfired—it reduces the challenge
somewhat. As with The Sims Online, AC2 had over 100,000 betatesters but has yet to pick up that many subscribers38
.
Wolfpack’s Shadowbane launches the day I write this. Long in
development, it has been hyped relentlessly to some effect:
There’s little doubt exactly what kind of virtual world it is
(violent) and no danger that people who don’t consider this to be
fun will even play it, let alone complain that it doesn’t address
their needs. Other virtual worlds have been prematurely hyped
more (Glitchless’s Dawn39 and Artifact Entertainment’s
Horizons40 spring to mind), but Shadowbane seems to have got
its act together first. It therefore starts with a relatively small
36 http://www.eve-online.com/
37 http://www.microsoft.com/games/zone/asheronscall/
38 It’s hard to be absolutely certain, because Turbine doesn’t release official
subscriber numbers. Industry rumor is that it’s short, however.
39 http://www.glitchless.com/dawn.html
40 http://www.istaria.com/
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 43
but highly dedicated core player base upon which to build. Time
will tell whether it succeeds or not.
It’s clear that the fifth age of virtual worlds will last for some
years to come, but eventually its time will pass. Perhaps free 3D
graphical engines will herald a new era of homegrown virtual
worlds, or maybe advances in virtual reality interfaces or mobile
telephony will have an impact. It could be any one of a number
of things currently known and unknown that triggers the
eventual paradigm shift.
What wonders will the sixth age of virtual worlds bring? That,
perhaps, may be for you to determine.
The Past Affects the Future
Very few graphical virtual worlds that are announced as being
in development actually wind up being played. This situation
may change as the barriers to entry fall, but probably not
significantly so.
Estimates vary, but at least a hundred graphical virtual
worlds—perhaps up to two hundred—were announced in the
two years following EverQuest’s launch in 1999. Some were
down to wishful thinking on the part of talented (or otherwise)
amateurs; some failed in preproduction because funding was
not available; some failed when the money they did raise ran
out; some built up a community and reached live testing before
they went belly-up.
Some, however, were set to become bestsellers yet were
inexplicably cancelled. Three of these were to have
repercussions for the industry as a whole.
44 Chapter 1
Missed Opportunities
OSI, which wrote Ultima Online, was part of Electronics Arts
(EA). Given the positive effect of the Ultima name on sales, other
brands from the EA stable were considered contenders for
implementation as virtual worlds. Thus began the Privateer
Online project. Raph Koster was installed as lead designer, with
Rich Vogel as producer. Work was well advanced when the
project was suddenly, bizarrely cancelled. Raph, Rich, and others
were immediately snapped up by Sony Online Entertainment
(SOE) to work on the Star Wars license they had recently
acquired. SOE was the new name of Verant, a company spun off
from 989 Studios to develop EverQuest. In other words, EA
presented some of its best virtual world experts to one of its two
major competitors. EA would shortly give most of its remaining
experts to its other major competitor.
Ultima Online 2 was planned to be set in the same universe as
UO, but to be fully 3D with an EQ-style moveable camera. Early
screen shots showed it to be much superior in looks to EQ, and
with Damion Schubert (of Meridian 59 fame) as lead designer
and Starr Long (Rich Vogel’s predecessor at UO) as producer it
was sure41 to be a hit. Also involved was Jeremy Gaffney, who
was a founder of Turbine and had worked on Asheron’s Call.
Signs of strangeness appeared when the game was renamed as
the unwieldy Ultima Worlds Online: Origin, but it wasn’t until
2001—three years into the project—that it was insanely
canned.
Starr Long, Jeremy Gaffney, and most of the other talent
involved left almost immediately to set up with the designer of
the Ultima series itself, Richard Garriott. Their new company,
Destination Games, was shortly thereafter acquired by NCSoft,
41 Well, as sure as anyone ever can be in virtual world design.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 45
developers of Lineage, who saw an opportunity to use their
Korean profits to break into the American market. Jake Song
moved from Korea to Austin, Texas, to work with them.
Electronic Arts had done it again. They were not the only
company capable of such monumental gaffes, however.
Venerable games publisher Sierra had dipped its toes in the
online marketplace before, having set up The Sierra Network in
1991; they sold it in 1994 for around $50,000,000 to AT&T, who
renamed it ImagiNation Network42. Sierra had maintained an
interest in a virtual world called The Realm, designed by Steve
Nichols, which was eventually launched early 1997. The Realm
was graphical, but had separate, static 2D pictures for each
location that acted as a stage across which animations of the
players’ characters moved. It dated rapidly and failed to attract
more than about 25,000 subscribers at its peak (late 1997).
Nevertheless, it was proof of concept, and Sierra had an ace up
its sleeve.
Some mainstream entertainment properties would make poor
virtual worlds. The Harry Potter universe, for example, doesn’t
really allow for more than one Harry Potter in it. There are
three franchises, however, that are especially well suited to
being embodied as graphical virtual worlds43 and which would
produce a guaranteed hit: Star Wars, Star Trek, and The Lord of
the Rings. Sierra had a Lord of the Rings license.
In 1998, Steve Nichols signed up as lead designer of Middle Earth
Online, along with Janus Anderson (also of The Realm), Daniel
James (from a top-notch commercial text-based virtual world
called Avalon), and Jay Esparza (already with Sierra). The
42 AT&T sold it to AOL two years later for about $10,000,000. Way to go,
AT&T.
43 Naturally, text-based versions of these have been around for many years,
not necessarily with permission from the license owner.
46 Chapter 1
designers were keen to discuss all aspects of the development
with prospective players, and consequently generated a lot of
buzz. They also generated a lot of friction with Sierra
executives, who didn’t like some of what was being mooted—
especially with regards to plans for the permanent death of
player characters.
The project continued, however, until during a company-wide
reorganization of Sierra in 1999 the opportunity was put on ice.
The design team was removed. Sierra also decided to abandon
The Realm because it didn’t look good against Ultima Online and
it looked worse against EverQuest. The game was taken up by
Codemasters and newly released Steve Nichols joined them.
The story does not quite end there, however. Sierra secretly
hired a new design team to work on Middle Earth Online. This
was perhaps not unrelated to the fact that the first of the Lord of
the Rings movies was due to be released in 2001, which would
generate massive, free publicity. Again, though, Sierra
mystifyingly canned the project—although at least this time the
developers, MM3D, sued.
Sierra had missed its chance. In December 2001, the movie The
Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring was released. It
grossed $155,862,412 in its first two weeks44
.
That is how out-of-touch management decisions shape an
industry.
44 Source: http://www.boxofficemojo.com/data/lordoftherings/.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 47
Theory and Practice
It should be clear by now that virtual worlds have a long and
varied history—much longer and more varied than many of the
people who play and design them realize. But so what?
It’s not entirely the case that only by understanding the past
can people understand the future. Virtual worlds have been
“invented” at least seven times (MUD1, Sceptre of Goth, Avatar,
Island of Kesmai, Aradath, Monster, and Gemstone were all
developed autonomously), and the designers of these games had
no sense of any “past” in what they were doing. Originality is
entirely possible without rehashing other people’s ideas.
However, to ignore completely what has gone before would be
extremely foolish. Time and time again, designers have made
the same mistakes their predecessors made, either because they
were simply not aware of the earlier work or they were too
arrogant to believe it could possibly be relevant to their greatly
superior product.
Conversely, some designers look too hard at what has gone
before. To use some admired virtual world as a prototype is fine
if you fully understand that world, but very limiting if you don’t.
A designer whose major experience of virtual worlds is
EverQuest might, for example, think “what character classes
should we have in our new game?” rather than “should we have
character classes in our new game at all?” Some of the more
basic assumptions go right back to MUD1, with few designers
even realizing that they are assumptions, let alone that they can
be questioned. That can’t be right!
Nobody wants to repeat the mistakes of the past, but people
don’t always realize that what they’re repeating is a mistake.
That’s because they’re learning the wrong lessons. The past
48 Chapter 1
delivers facts—the practice. History delivers the understanding
of those facts—the theory. It provides the causal links.
This is especially true for the design of virtual worlds. Each
must be conceived as a complete entity. Each one can’t really be
modularized: Every component affects every other. Sometimes
newspapers put together composite pictures made of the best
features of famous faces—Bette Davis’ eyes, Julia Roberts’
mouth, Doris Day’s, nose and so on. The result is usually more
like Frankenstein’s monster than “the world’s most beautiful
woman.” So it is with virtual worlds: It doesn’t matter how
perfect the parts, it’s by the whole that they are judged.
Thus, designers who know not only the choices available to
them but also the wider effects of those choices are better able
to create a virtual world that works than those designers who
don’t.
Whither Innovation?
The design of virtual worlds proceeds by a process of evolution
rather than revolution. New virtual worlds usually draw heavily
from one or more “parent” worlds, even to the extent that it’s
possible to map out an entire family tree for all the various
codebases45. This being so, it is becoming increasingly
important that designers of new virtual worlds become aware of
innovations arising in other branches of the tree. Not only does
this ensure that the best ideas spread, but there is less danger of
standards problems arising from the same concept being
implemented differently in different virtual worlds.
45 It’s called “The MUD Tree,” and lives at
http://camelot.cyburbia.net.au/~martin/cgi-bin/mud_tree.cgi.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 49
Because graphical virtual worlds take so long to develop, their
designers in particular must keep an eye on what’s happening
elsewhere. These games (they do tend to be games) have their
own strengths, of course: Their visual representation demands
new levels of virtual world physics, and the huge number of
players they have opens the door to all manner of interesting
developments that would be impossible on a smaller scale.
However, they are still several years behind text-based virtual
worlds in nearly all other areas.
Furthermore, they’ll probably stay behind for some time. When
it comes to implementing new ideas, text-based worlds are
more:
• Responsive: Adding a new object doesn’t mean adding a
new texture map.
• Enfranchising: Many more people can write well than
can draw well.
• Adaptable: Program changes can quickly be made
anywhere in the system.
• Experimental: The test/edit cycle is much shorter, so
changes can be made almost on impulse to be later
refined, retained or rejected.
• Open: Players give new ideas more of a chance.
• Pragmatic: Players accept crashes and other failures
more readily if they’re not paying.
• Tunable: Minor changes don’t mean major down-time.
• Promising: More is possible with text than with graphics.
• Robust: Balance is less of an issue with fewer players.
Besides, the consequences of a failed programmed-in-yourspare-time virtual world are far less agonizing than they would
be for a $15,000,000 graphical extravaganza.
So how does a designer keep up to date?
50 Chapter 1
Anyone with time on their hands46 can check out a sample of the
several thousand text-based virtual worlds that there are in
existence47 if they want to find out “the word on the street.”
However, as I pointed out earlier, knowing what is available
without knowing the theory behind it can be disastrous. It’s
therefore in the best interests of all virtual world designers to
discuss ideas with one another. It isn’t for sentimental reasons
that luminaries such as Raph Koster, Damion Schubert, Brad
McQuaid, and Jessica Mulligan not only subscribe to the MUDDEV48 mailing list, but are active posters to it. Neither is it
surprising that the best informative and speculative articles
about virtual world design are being written for—and made
publicly available for free by—a company specializing in
immersive text-based worlds, Skotos49. There’s even a print
magazine, The Mud Companion50
.
The future of virtual world design is therefore rosy, although
obviously not as rosy as it would be if people richer than Skotos
were to throw money at it.
The future is just that, however: the future. There’s little point
in discussing what may happen to virtual worlds unless you
understand what has happened and what is happening.
46 This rules out most designers, then….
47 For example:
• The Mud Connector (http://www.mudconnect.com).
• Mudlinks (http://www.cuddle-puddle.org/~mudlinks/lg.html)
• Muds Online (http://www.mudsonline.com/)
• MudRanger (http://www.mudranger.com/)
48 http://www.kanga.nu/archives/MUD-Dev-L/.
49 http://www.skotos.net/articles/.
50 http://www.mudcompanion.com/.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 51
The timeline I’ve presented here has outlined how things came
to be the way they are in the virtual worlds of today51, but it has
given few hints as to what actually comprises a virtual world, let
alone the wider effects of including or excluding particular
components in a design.
It is to this topic that the major part of the remainder of this
book is concerned.
The Basics
People often want to categorize the various virtual worlds, to
make it easier to discuss their particular interests or find a
world that is most suited to their needs. Prospective players, for
example, will want to know what a world looks like and its
setting: If you want to role-play an interstellar pirate, you’re not
going to have a lot of luck in a Fantasy environment. Marketers
and investors are more concerned with a product’s longevity
and its user demographics: They may not want to spend any
time in a virtual world themselves, but they’re keen to know
about those who do. Finally, designers have their own,
theoretical issues to resolve, in addition to understanding what
the players and marketers think.
Having looked at virtual worlds from a historical perspective,
the categorizations typically used present themselves fairly
readily:
51 See also the Online World Timeline at
http://www.legendmud.org/raph/gaming/ mudtimeline.html, which gives
further details with direct quotes from people involved, and Jessica
Mulligan’s more business-oriented recollections Happy 30th Birthday,
Online Games in http://www. skotos.net/articles/BTHarchives/99.shtml.
52 Chapter 1
• Appearance
• Genre
• Codebase
• Age
• Player base
• Degree to which they can be changed
• Degree of persistence
Let’s consider these in turn.
Appearance
Newbies tend to believe that the appearance of a virtual world is
very important; oldbies are generally more concerned with
other features.
Virtual worlds are typically characterized as being either textbased (textual) or graphics-based (graphical). The former use
words to describe locations, objects, and other players, whereas
the latter use pictures.
There is, however, quite a spectrum between the two extremes.
To access a textual virtual world, a player needs some kind of
software connection to it. This may be direct—for example, by
running the game server from a console and typing at its
prompts—or it may be indirect through use of a client. If a
client is involved it may be dumb, intelligent, or custom.
Strictly speaking, a dumb client does nothing except input
(which it passes to a server), and output (which it does to
whatever the server sends back). However, few clients are
actually that dumb—even telnet can handle minor editing
functions such as backspacing. It’s deliberate that dumb clients
don’t do a lot, because that way they can be used for a greater
variety of purposes.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 53
Even when dealing with a dumb client—or no client at all—a
virtual world need not merely consist of lifeless text. Individual
letters, words, sentences, and paragraphs can be colorized by
the server (usually using the ANSI standard understood by most
PCs) to make the resulting display more attractive and
meaningful.
Intelligent clients are intended for use with specific application
types; in this particular case, that means textual virtual worlds.
Such clients provide additional input functionality (such as
macros or triggering) and tools for managing output (such as
local logging and word-wrapping). Although these features
could still be implemented at the server end and used with a
dumb client, most modern server authors don’t bother with this
as they know there are now so many52 good clients about that
people will almost certainly be using one anyway.
Custom clients work only for the small subset of virtual worlds
that share its protocol (in practice, this usually means just one).
The client sends packets of information to the server describing
what has been input. The server sends packets back telling the
client what to output. Although the input protocol is usually not
all that sophisticated, the output can contain embedded codes
that will cause the client to do things, such as switch fonts, play
sound effects and music, or display pictures. For a textual
virtual world, the pictures will by definition be static affairs, this
being more akin to an illustrated book than a movie. However, it
serves to show just how far a text-based world can go without
being classified as graphical.
52
http://www.mudconnect.com/resources/Mud_Resources:Mud_Clients.html
has a list of client resources.
54 Chapter 1
As a rule of thumb, first- and second-age virtual worlds used
dumb clients, third-age used intelligent clients, and fourth-age
used custom clients.
Fifth-age (graphical) virtual worlds also use custom clients, but
display the information a different way. The packets received by
the client contain information that can be used by the client to
render a scene. This will be either 2D (tessellated) or 3D (firstperson), although doubtless “true 3D” (using some stereoscopic
device to give depth to a scene) leading to full-blown VR isn’t all
that far away.
Thus, to a newbie who neither knows nor cares about the
underlying mechanisms, the difference between a virtual world
that has moving pictures and one that doesn’t is fairly clear;
indeed, it’s probably what attracted the newbie to one rather
than the other in the first place. To an oldbie, however, who
understands that the fundamental machinery for implementing
the virtual world itself (embodied by the server) is much the
same whatever the client, the distinction between graphical and
textual worlds is mainly an interface issue (albeit a notinsignificant one).
Genre
Another categorization that is important to newbie players but
less so to designers is genre53
.
A newbie will look at a set of virtual worlds and say that this one
is medieval Fantasy, this one is Cyberpunk Science Fiction, this
one is dark vampire Horror, this one is Greek Mythology, this
53 I use the word to mean both the theme/setting and the content category
(usually expressed in terms of suitability for children).
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 55
one is asexual Japanese Anime, this one is stylized Gangsters,
and so on.
Again, though, from a design perspective most of the way a
virtual world works is independent of genre. Sure, you’re not
going to need magic in a world based on Venice in the 16th
century, and you’re not going to need firearms in a world where
all the players take on the role of fishes. However, most of the
basic functionality isn’t going to change a lot across genres.
Sometimes, though, there are serious implications of genre.
Why are there so few Wild West virtual worlds? Because it’s
very hard to explain why Joe Newbie’s character can’t enter a
shop, buy a loaded six-gun, and empty it into the back of a
character that someone else has been playing for five years.
They didn’t call those things “equalizers” for nothing54! Fantasy,
Science Fiction, and Horror worlds have fiction-preserving ways
out of this, as do ones based another hundred years or more into
the past. It’s not the only issue, though—there are plenty more.
Following are some examples:
• Crime fiction doesn’t work well as a genre because players
don’t want to divulge clues to one another. This means
they’re discouraged from communicating; most designers
would prefer to encourage them.
• Comedy flops as a genre. You laugh the first time something
funny happens, but by the tenth time that same thing
happens, it ceases to amuse you.
• Romance doesn’t work for virtual worlds. Sex does, but
romance doesn’t. If you start out with the former, you
rapidly end up with the latter.
54 There’s also the problem (noted by Damion Schubert) that the enemies
don’t get bigger. Aside from the real-life political problems that would arise
from killing virtual natives and Mexicans, what happens when your
character advances in experience? Do you kill bigger natives and Mexicans?
56 Chapter 1
• Lone heroes or heroines don’t translate well into virtual
worlds. It doesn’t make sense to have 5,000 people running
around who all act like Indiana Jones, Lara Croft, James
Bond, or Dr Who. There wouldn’t be room for them in the
real world, let alone a virtual one.
These may look obvious to you, but they don’t to everyone55
.
Even so, why would any business person want to fund
development of an unproven (in virtual world terms) genre
anyway? Surely they would go with what they know can be
implemented?
Well, the chief importance of genres lies in their ability to
attract players. From this perspective, the choice of genre
becomes a marketing issue, rather than a design issue (although
designers should, perforce, understand their market). Someone
behind a glass desk realizes that millions and millions of people
have seen the Batman movies and that’s a good enough reason
for them to press the issue—irrespective of whether Gotham
City would make a good setting for a virtual world.
Fortunately, most designers can avoid the perils of a bad genre.
There are plenty of perils of a good genre, too, of course,
examples of which will become evident throughout this book.
One in particular is the issue of licensing. Licensing is a big
topic in the computer games industry as a whole. The
arguments are
For:
55 The only one of those mentioned above that I haven’t encountered in my
capacity as a virtual world design consultant is the Comedy genre. All the
rest I’ve seen people try—some, more than once.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 57
• People know and trust the brand, so you will get more
players.
• You gain the attention of the media and of your competitors.
• You receive free publicity from other license-related
products.
• The design work for the overall concept has already been
done.
Against:
• You have to pay an invariably large licensing fee and
royalties, so your costs rise.
• The free publicity could be bad, or at least not helpful.
• Some accommodation may be needed by the license for
gameplay purposes. These could annoy fans or (worse)
license-holders.
• The overall concept is what designers like doing the most.
In terms of virtual worlds, the decision whether to license is
generally made by someone other than the world’s would-be
designers. This imposes creative constraints, because designers
have to fit the franchise. Although many license owners are
fairly hands-off, others are particularly precious about their
worlds and will not consent to anything non-canon no matter
how much this stresses the constraints of a different medium.
This can pose great difficulties for a designer. Sometimes, even
things that are part of the fictional world can be out of bounds,
for example the license for The Lord of the Rings would not
necessarily cover material mentioned only in The Hobbit, even
though they’re set in the same Fantasy world.
58 Chapter 1
Perversely, though, licenses can also be liberating—at least
insofar as virtual worlds are concerned56. A sure-fire hit such as
Star Wars Galaxies or The Sims Online can take risks that
unlicensed games might avoid simply because if they do screw
up, it’s not going to kill the game. An innovation with a 75%
chance of being a success could well be tried out by a licensed
graphical virtual world when it would be left alone by an
unlicensed one on the grounds that “There’s a one in four
chance this is going to burn a fifteen-million dollar investment?
Are you nuts?!”
For a competent design team, a world with a big enough license
behind it isn’t going to fail unless they set out to make it fail (for
the time being, at least).
Codebase
Related to the idea of genre is that of codebases. To explain how
the two are connected requires a short introduction to some
principles of virtual world server architecture.
Codebases came about because much of the work that needs to
be done to create a virtual world can be re-used when creating
other virtual worlds. How much, exactly, depends on the
codebase. Codebases are mainly associated with the third age of
virtual worlds, although the codebase principle was used as
early as MUD1 and there are ongoing attempts to create similar
solutions for graphical virtual worlds (Asheron’s Call was
designed with this idea in mind57).
56 For regular computer games, a license often amounts to a big sign saying,
“Warning: Highly derivative product!”
57 The main open-source 3D graphics engines in development are
• Crystal Space: http://crystal.sourceforge.net.
• NeL: http://www.nevrax.org.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 59
The most basic part of the software that runs a virtual world is
its driver. This has all the usual routines that appear in any
sophisticated interpreter, handling things like memory
management, parsing, and data structures. Coupled with these
are more operating systems-like material such as input/output
queuing, time-outs, packet handling, and so on. The result is
that the driver can make two foundation concepts available to
higher levels of the program: the existence of entities from
which the virtual world is to be constructed (for example,
objects) and the association of input/output with some of those
entities (for example, players).
Above this layer comes what (for historical reasons) is known as
the mudlib58. The mudlib defines the physics of a virtual world,
which will include things such as mass/weight, timers,
movement, and communication, along with higher concepts
such as (in a game context) magic and combat mechanisms.
The layer above the mudlib is the world definition. Using the
model set up by the physics, world-specific concepts are added.
New functionality is associated with these objects that is also
consequent on the physics (although not necessarily defined
directly by it). The world definition is fully descriptive: It can be
used to create multiple incarnations of the world.
Finally, there is the particular instantiation of the world. Actual
data items define this individual world, differentiating it from
all the worlds that could possibly be defined.
• Quakeforge: http://sourceforge.net/projects/quake.
• Worldforge: http://www.worldforge.org.
58 For “mud library.” MUD1 had a mudlib, but it was an adaptation of the
BCPL input/output library and therefore was at a lower level than today’s
mudlibs. The modern use of the term was coined independently by LPMUD.
60 Chapter 1
Here’s an example to show how this all hangs together. Suppose
we have a world in which (among many other things) a silver
key opens a silver casket. The driver defines the concepts of:
discrete objects; actions that manipulate such objects; actors
(that is, players) that can affect such actions. The mudlib defines
the concept of objects that can contain other objects and the
conditions under which this can occur. The world defines the
concept of caskets and keys, and how using the right one of the
latter on one of the former can cause that casket to open. The
world instantiation includes an explicit representation for
object32 (a silver casket) and object19 (a silver key); the state of a
silver casket in the instantiated world depends on whether
anyone has opened or closed it with a silver key.
Okay, so these are the various parts of the server:
• Driver
• Mudlib (physics)
• World model
• Instantiation
All codebases must implement these layers, but they don’t have
to do it all the same way. Typically, they use a combination of
three techniques:
• Hard-code them using a real programming language such as
C or C++.
• Soft-code them using a scripting language such as LPC or
MUF (Multi-User Forth—used by MUCKs), which is
interpreted by the hard code.
• Store them explicitly as data in files that are meaningful to
the hard code, the soft code, or both.
How exactly they do this depends on the particular codebase.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 61
Everything that is hard-coded constitutes the engine. For
MUSHes and MOOs, the engine is just the driver; for LPMUDs
it’s the driver and the mudlib; for DikuMUDs it’s the driver, the
mudlib, and the world definition. The advantages of having an
engine with higher-level functionality are ease of use and runtime efficiency; the disadvantages are inflexibility and a lack of
expressiveness.
Everything that is stored to data files is the database (which
may, or may not, be a third-party database with a formal query
language and so on). This can be a little confusing, as there can
be up to three completely different databases that make up the
database:
• Scripting language code
• Templates
• Instantiations
Any or all of these could be used statically (for initialization
only) or dynamically (consulted each use, on-the-fly).
Let’s look at these different database forms a little more closely.
A scripting language database consists of the script files that the
virtual world needs. For MUSHes, these scripts themselves
define the mudlib, the world model, and the world’s
instantiation; for LPMUDs, they just define the world model.
A template database contains definitions for objects, from which
a world can be constructed. With this kind of set-up, it’s possible
to do things like change the behavior of one of the virtual
world’s denizens by tinkering with the template from which it
was stamped out—you don’t have to change/recompile any
code. DikuMUDs use a template database.
62 Chapter 1
An instantiation database (more widely known as a runtime
database) stores the state of the instantiated world, specifically
those values that persist across server shutdowns and which
can’t be generated from either a scripting database or a
template database. A good example is player character data,
which is usually stowed in a database while the player is not
present in the virtual world. Worlds that run continuously will
periodically store their entire state in an instantiation database,
so they can effect recovery in the event of catastrophic machine
failure.
Note that it’s possible for a codebase to incorporate these three
databases into one. The object-oriented implementation of
MOOs, for example, means that dumping all the data objects
(that is, creating a runtime database) automatically dumps all
templates and scripts as well, because they are defined as such
objects.
Table 1.1 summarizes these differences for a number of codebase
families (and, for comparison, some individual virtual worlds).
Each component level is described as being code (executed by
the computer hardware), script (executed by the code59), or data
(non-executable).
Table 1.1 Codebase Differences
Codebase Driver Mudlib World
Model
Runtime
DikuMUDs Code Code Code Data
MUD1 Code Code Script Data
59 There is an argument that high-powered scripting languages such as LPC,
which can be used for applications beyond virtual worlds (for example,
writing WWW servers), should count as both code and scripting language.
MUDDLE can even be compiled and run directly, instead of being
interpreted.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 63
MUD2 Code Script Script Data
Ultima Online Code Script Script Data
LPMUDs Code Code Script Script
MUCKs,
MUSHes &
MOOs
Code Script Script Script
What does any of this have to do with genre?
Well, the way codebases are implemented has an impact on the
virtual worlds that they themselves implement. Hard-coded
functionality is less flexible but more powerful; soft-coded
functionality is quicker to write but slower to run.
Thus, if you wanted a virtual world with a lot of action
delivering an intense experience, you’d go for something that
favored code (for example, a DikuMUD); if you wanted a virtual
world where spontaneity and creativity were important, you’d
go for something that favored scripting (for example, a MOO); if
you wanted a codebase that had a detailed physics but in a
nonstandard setting, you’d go for something that employed
code for the mudlib and a scripting language for the world
model (for example, an LPMUD).
Very generally, the major codebases60 used for (textual) virtual
worlds conform to the following stereotypes:
• DikuMUDs: Adventure-oriented, with a heavy emphasis on
combat against computer-controlled foes. They are exciting
experiences, but the worlds themselves tend not to change
60 For further details and descriptions of derivative codebases, see the
rec.games.mud FAQ parts 2 and 4:
• http://www.mudconnect.com/mudfaq/mudfaq-p2.html#q6
• http://www.mudconnect.com/mudfaq/mudfaq-p4.html
64 Chapter 1
much over time. They mostly have a Fantasy setting, with
Science Fiction in distant second place.
• LPMUDs: Also adventure-oriented, but with less emphasis
on combat. They are often extended over time. Again, they’re
mainly Fantasy, but across a wider range; there are
numerous Science Fiction, Horror, and mythological worlds,
too.
• MUCKs: Socially oriented, heavily focused on role-playing.
These are usually based on some specific work of Fantasy,
Science Fiction, or Horror. Those that aren’t often involve
original, anthropomorphic animals (furries).
• MUSHes: Socially oriented, mostly focused on role-playing,
but occasionally non-gaming in nature. MUSHes tend to
have a Science Fiction setting based on books, comics, or
movies, with Fantasy some distance behind.
• MOOs: The least games-oriented codebase, responsible for
more non-game worlds than all the other codebases put
together. Those games it does produce are usually original
(rather than derivative) Fantasy that are geared for role-play
rather than adventure.
These stereotypes are reinforced by the historical heritages of
each codebase. Although it’s possible (for example) to program
an exact replica of a MOO in LPC, people who wanted to write a
“MOO-like” virtual world would probably just go for a MOO
codebase instead. What’s more, people just starting up an
LPMUD would probably take someone else’s mudlib as a
starting point. Thus, the theme or genre connotations
associated with a codebase will tend to be perpetuated as that
codebase evolves, meaning that when new versions appear they
will usually be refined for their preferred genres61
.
61 For an examination of the different codebases from both a player’s and
developer’s perspective, see Andrew Busey’s, Secrets of the MUD Wizards:
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 65
Codebases are a common way of categorizing free, text-based
virtual worlds (of which there are several thousand); they are
not, however, a lot of use in most other circumstances. Almost
all graphical virtual worlds, for example, have their own,
proprietary codebase. Other means of usefully distinguishing
between the different natures of virtual worlds are therefore
also commonly employed.
Age
How long does a virtual world typically last? What stops it from
lasting longer?
To give you some idea of the longevity involved here, Table 1.2
lists examples of the oldest incarnations in existence of free,
text-based virtual worlds.
Textual worlds have the potential to last indefinitely. This isn’t
simply because the graphics never date and the bandwidth
requirements are low (although those are factors); rather, it’s
that they can remain compelling for long enough that people
want to stay. Those that fail to attract a critical mass of players
tend to die after a few months, but beyond that a virtual world
can last for years so long as there is someone around willing to
host and administrate it62
.
Table 1.2 Ages of Extant Virtual Worlds
Playing and Programming MUDs, MOOs, MUSHes, MUCKs and other
Internet Role-Playing Games. Indianapolis, Sams.net Publishing, 1995.
62 Reasons why virtual worlds nevertheless don’t all last for more than a few
years are discussed in Chapter 3, “Players.”
66 Chapter 1
Virtual World Birth
Year
Codebase Home Page URL
MUD1 1987 MUD1 www.british-legends.com
Void 1989 Custom Void.greenfinch.com
DragonMUD 1989 TinyMUD www.dragonmud.org
BatMUD 1990 LPMUD www.bat.org
Medievia 1991 Custom www.medievia.com
Northern Lights 1992 AberMUD www.ludd.luth.se/mud/ab
er/northern_lights.html
MediaMOO 1993 MOO www.cc.gatech.edu/~asb/
MediaMOO
Graphical virtual worlds haven’t been around for long enough to
determine their individual chances of surviving into their
dotage, but so long as the graphics are patched or otherwise
updated so they don’t fall too far behind the latest norms, the
prognosis is good. Original estimates by publishers that virtual
worlds would have around five years of life in them before the
servers eventually had to be switched off were proven wrong (at
least post-Ultima Online).
There’s generally enough gameplay in a graphical world to last a
player six to twelve months, which is less (by around half) than
for most textual worlds. However, newbies are easier to attract
to these larger environments, and therefore the shortfall isn’t
important63
.
When a free virtual world gets old, it may defy death for years
because a rump of players stays with it; overheads would make
this unlikely for a commercial virtual world. On the other hand,
free virtual worlds rarely continue to exist after their original
63 From the point of view of the virtual world’s healthy survival. Obviously, a
game will generate more money when paying customers stay longer, which
is why retention is a big issue for commercial products.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 67
designers and administrators have lost interest, whereas
commercial virtual worlds do. On the whole, it seems likely that
commercial graphical virtual worlds have the potential to last
just as long as free textual virtual worlds.
The reason age is an important consideration when looking at a
virtual world is because it can be used as a measure of the
success of that world. While acknowledging that failures can
often be attributed to external factors, nevertheless good
designs ought to survive and poor designs ought to fail. Age, as
a measure of survival, is therefore a measure of success.
This is not a metric that can be applied in related industries. For
example, the first computer game to be released on a CD-ROM
came out in 1989: Activision’s64 The Manhole. Few people even
remember it now, let alone play it, and yet DragonMUD was
launched the very same year and has been played continuously
ever since. The default assumption is that although regular
computer games have a limited lifespan, virtual worlds
(whether games-oriented or otherwise) could last forever.
People don’t ask why Meridian 59 ran for four years: they ask
why it only ran for four years65
.
Player Base
The other way to look at the success or otherwise of a virtual
world is by examining its player base. In theory, the better
worlds will attract more players, and therefore those that have
the largest player bases are the best. In theory….
64 The company was known as Mediagenic at the time.
65 Which perhaps explains why it was bought from 3DO and relaunched in
2002.
68 Chapter 1
Actually, there are many reasons why a virtual world may have
a large user base (or a small one), with marketing and pricing
not insignificant factors. From a designer’s point of view, these
have to be taken into account so the essential reasons for a
design’s success can be gauged.
The first thing to note, therefore, is that there are different
measures of “size” here. If someone visits the same virtual world
for three hours every night, should they carry the same weight
as someone who plays for two hours every Saturday morning, or
someone who only plays for two hours once every three
months? Sure, there’s a different business case for each usage
pattern (hard-core players are more important for per-hour
charging, whereas casual players are more important for permonth charging). However, that doesn’t help when you’re trying
to figure out why a particular virtual world is popular so that
you can adjust your own designs accordingly. Some of the best
virtual worlds are free: Is being free one of the reasons they
have a large player base, or would they have even more players
if they charged a fee and could afford to advertise themselves?
For commercial games using the same business model, absolute
subscriber numbers are an acceptable means of comparison. If
game X has 300,000 subscribers and game Y has 100,000, and
they both charge around $12 a month primarily to North
Americans, it’s not unreasonable to suppose that game X is
“better” in some sense than game Y.
For virtual worlds that don’t conform to these parameters, user
base size comparisons are much harder. There are basically five
approaches:
• Count the number of registered players. This assumes
the world registers its players, of course, but not all do.
Why is this? Well, when people want to try out a virtual
world, filling out forms puts them off. Even asking for an
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 69
email address can be annoying—who wants to end up on
some mailing list when they’re only looking to see
whether they like the world? In other words, forcing
players to register can be seen as a barrier to entry. You
get more newbies into the game if you don’t take down
their particulars first.
• Count the number of characters. Every game keeps
records of the characters belonging to players. Yes, there
will almost certainly be people who have several
characters, either attached to the same player account or
ones belonging to false identities they’ve set up. The
same applies to all virtual worlds, though, so the
argument is that it ought to even itself out. The first flaw
here is that actually, no, it doesn’t even itself out. Some
virtual worlds have entrance qualifications that make
owning multiple characters or accounts very difficult—
there are role-playing MUSHes66, for example, that
interview prospective players and have waiting lists for
entry. The second flaw (which also applies to the “count
the number of registered players” approach) is that some
virtual worlds purge player records that remain dormant
for a period, but others don’t. A world which has been
running for two years that doesn’t clear out unused
player records will be able to boast a larger user base
than one that has been running for ten years which
deletes records that haven’t been accessed for 90 days.
• Count the number of players who access the world per
day. This can actually be quite a good measure, although
a bad game with marketing will get more suck-it-and-see
players per day than a good game with bad marketing.
Also, it depends on the day—weekends tend to be busier
than weekdays.
66 Such as GarouMUSH, http://www.garoumush.org/.
70 Chapter 1
• Count the number of simultaneous players. This measure
posits that snapshots of usage throughout the day can
give a good comparison of user base sizes across virtual
worlds. Suppose two worlds each have 80 players in
them at 7 p.m. and 120 players at 8 p.m. It seems fair to
suggest that they have roughly the same degree of
popularity. It doesn’t matter that for one world half the
players at 8 p.m. may still be playing from when they
were counted at 7 p.m., and for the other some people
have played for half an hour and missed being counted at
all; indeed, this is entirely the point. Newbies who enter a
game and see a lot of players in a world would think that
world was popular, irrespective of how long those
players spent per session. The main problem with using a
count of simultaneous player numbers is that it varies so
much depending on the time and the time zones where
their players live. Worlds that have 700 players at 10 p.m.
might have only 20 at 5 a.m. The figures are so skewed
that the mean, median, or mode average is not of any use.
Thus, when people do refer to the number of
simultaneous players in a world, they tend to give the
daily peak (which is better, but not much better).
• Count the number of player-hours. This is perhaps the
best measure of the popularity of virtual worlds, but it
suffers precisely because of this. Few administrators are
going to publish details of how many player-hours are
spent in their virtual world per day if this would make
them look bad against the bigger games (and it would!).
Incidentally, this and the previous measure are both
susceptible to the inflationary effects of people who are
logged into a virtual world but not actually playing it.
Some textual worlds, for example, regularly have over
half their players away from the keyboard while their
characters remain unattended in full public view.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 71
However it’s measured, the size of a player base has big
implications on the design of a virtual world. For example, the
main differences between graphical and textual worlds from a
designer’s point of view are to do with the huge numbers of
players that the former attract, rather than the fact they have
pictures.
Size, as they say, isn’t everything, though. Also important are
the demographics of the player base—and not just so marketing
people can sell to advertisers and sponsors. Those are actual
demographics; when a game is being designed, the target
demographics are important. The more designers know about
the kind of players that are required, the better they can
account for this in their design. A virtual world aimed at
wealthy professionals would be different to one aimed at
impoverished students. A virtual world aimed at children would
be different to one aimed at bored homemakers. A virtual world
aimed at everybody would be different to one aimed at just the
design team (although many design teams don’t yet seem to
have figured this one out).
That said, demographics are only statistics, and they don’t
always tell the designers of virtual worlds what they need to
know. It’s clear that virtual worlds which are perceived as
computer games—and most of them are—seem to attract
different groups of people than their regular-game cousins;
there is, however, wide disagreement among analysts over the
actual figures67. The same overall trends are nevertheless
67 For example: What percentage of computer gamers are female?
• 43% http://www.idsa.com/IDSATopTen2002.pdf (2001 survey by Peter D.
Hart Research Associates and NPD Group)
• 42% http://www.mediafamily.org/research/vgrc/2001-2.shtml (2001
survey by National Institute on Media and the Family)
• 12% http://www.techmall.com/techdocs/TS000822-1.html (2000 survey
by The Strategy Group for Ziff-Davis).
72 Chapter 1
present within individual surveys (which compare like with
like), and it’s probably fairly safe to say that in general:
• Virtual world players are older than console gamers, and
cover a wider age range than PC gamers.
• Virtual worlds attract proportionately more female players
than do console or PC games.
This information is normally interpreted in one of two ways:
Designers should make their games more inclusive, so as to
further appeal to the mass market; designers should make their
games less inclusive, so as not to alienate their core audience.
Actually, though, it’s possible to appeal to both groups of
players. Whereas marketing people want to know who is
playing, designers are more interested in why they are playing.
Players’ expectations and desires are more important to
designers than their ages, incomes, and geographic locations; if
designers can model how the different player types interact, and
design their virtual world such that these interactions are both
stable and intrinsically interesting for participants and
observers, then demographic information becomes purely a
marketing tool. If you want more female players, advertise to
women; if you want more older players, advertise to senior
citizens; if you want more teenagers, advertise to teenagers. It
shouldn’t matter who plays, so long as there are checks and
balances within the virtual world itself to ensure that no one
playing style can come to overwhelm the others.
Contrast these with the results of Nick Yee’s EverQuest survey, which
discovered that approximately 16% of that game’s players are female.
http://www.nickyee.com/eqt/demographics.html.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 73
Fortunately, models for representing playing habits
independently of demographics do exist; they are discussed in
Chapter 3, “Players.”
Dimensions: Change and Persistence
So how do designers categorize virtual worlds? And why would
they want to categorize virtual worlds anyway?
Categorizations make explicit some of the choices available to
designers. It’s all too easy to begin designing a virtual world
having already made key decisions without even being aware of
the fact. By laying out the options available to them, not only
can designers be aware of what options are available to them,
they are also forced to look at their solutions more analytically.
Categorizations are particularly useful for seeing what the
various combinations of design decisions imply about any
resulting virtual world.
There are many high-level judgments that designers must make
when considering the nature of the virtual worlds they wish to
create—so many, in fact, that they merit an entire chapter of
this book to themselves (Chapter 4, “World Design”). Most of
these options are interdependent in some way, which makes
them unsuitable as categorizations; others are so disjoint that
they say nothing general beyond their own context.
Two, however, do combine to good effect: the degree to which a
world can be changed by its players (sometimes called player
impact); the degree to which changes persist over time. This
model, originally devised by Raph Koster and Rich Vogel68
,
68 In http://www.legendmud.org/raph/gaming/despat_files/frame.htm . Their
narrative cube, discussed in Chapter 7, “Toward a Critical Aesthetic,” is a
related idea.
74 Chapter 1
elegantly exposes what is perhaps the most important question
designers must face, which determines the very soul of their
creations: Whose world is it?
The two dimensions—change and persistence—are natural
progressions from some of the differentiators applied to
codebases. Players of MOOs all have full builder privileges,
meaning they can add to their virtual world almost
indiscriminately (they have direct access to the scripting
language, which controls everything above the driver level).
Players of AberMUDs have no such capability to change their
world. Similarly, in Ultima Online the entire world and
everything in it persists indefinitely—you can drop an object in
your house and it will still be there weeks later. In MUD1,
everything except the player characters’ details is periodically
reinitialized.
The issue is one of content. Although developers throw around
the term like everyone knows what it means, it’s actually quite
hard to pin down. Essentially, content is that which the world
provides to hold players’ interest. If players are consumers,
content is what they consume.
As an analogy, content in virtual worlds is like what stand-up
comedians call “material.” They write a routine stringing
together jokes, observations, and witticisms, which they then
deliver to an audience. If they’re really good, members of the
audience may come back time and time again, but most won’t.
After all, if you’ve heard a joke once, it’s not really as amusing
when you hear it a second time; their material isn’t sticky. For
performances in a 2,000-capacity theater, a single routine can
last a comedian for half a year; on television with an audience of
20 million, it’s pretty well dead the moment it has been used.
Content in virtual worlds generally means giving people things
to do, places to do it, and things to do it to. The mere presence of
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 75
other players can be considered as a form of content, being as it
is the primary reason most people play. Designers can’t design
players, however, just facilitate their interactions; this kind of
content is therefore said to be intangible.
Virtual worlds have another major draw, however, that of the
virtual environment itself. This, designers can change directly;
it’s tangible content. When designers talk about adding content
to a world, they generally mean the tangible sort: that which can
be coded or scripted, rather than that which emerges from
interactions.
The combination of players and world gives rise to content so
potent that people can be quite willing—indeed, positively
enthusiastic—to repeat an experience over and over again. This
makes virtual worlds incredibly sticky—much stickier than
related leisure-time pursuits such as books, computer games,
movies, and television. Only music is comparably sticky, with
many people happy to listen to their same, favorite albums often
and for extended periods69
.
Players do nevertheless (as individuals) consume content. So
where does new content originate? In some virtual worlds, only
from the interactions between the players: MUD1 has had only
minor changes to the virtual world since 1985, yet people still
play it to this day. MUD1, however, is scaled just right for the
number of players it attracts. For large virtual worlds such as
EverQuest, there are far more people wanting to play than there
are things for them to do. As players become increasingly
practiced at the game and want to try out the more demanding
challenges, there is greater demand for high-end experiences.
Therefore, new tangible content (in the form of locations,
69 Whether they would do so if they had to pay a monthly license fee to listen
to them is another matter, of course.
76 Chapter 1
monsters, treasure, and so on) must be added so that there’s
enough around for everyone to eat their fill.
This kind of content can be added in one of two ways: within the
context of the virtual world (for example, a nobleman hires a
gang of workers to build a castle) or without (for example, a
player or designer inserts a castle using a development tool).
The distinction is quite marked: Does the world make the
changes, or do the players? Put another way, do players have to
prove new statements from a given set of axioms, or do they get
to add axioms directly?
Some virtual worlds allow only partial access to the full majesty
of their scripting language (perhaps through permission
restrictions, perhaps through the use of a separate “builder
language” itself implemented in the scripting language like
regular commands). You might, for example, be able to create
objects but not locations, or locations but not commands. In
practice, though, these are one step beyond the point of no
return: Either you can change the world using independent
meta-actions (which is called building) or you can’t (in which
case any changes must be through actions within the context of
the virtual world itself). Thus, the measure of how much change
a virtual world allows depends on the criteria that determine
who gets to have the builder privileges.
For some worlds, for example most MOOs, everyone can build;
for others, such as the heaviest role-playing MUSHes, only the
world’s guardian coders can build (even though the architecture
is as open as a MOO’s, and therefore anyone could in theory be
allowed to build). In between these two extremes are worlds
that allow changes by wider groups of coders/designers, by
privileged appointees, by highly-experienced players, by players
who have been playing for a certain time period, by players who
pass an interview, by anyone who asks; it’s not quite a spectrum,
but it’s close.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 77
The other dimension under consideration here, persistence, is
also more discrete than continuous. Persistence relates to the
amount of a virtual world’s state that would be retained intact
were the whole system to be shut down and restarted. All
virtual worlds have some degree of persistence (after all, it’s
part of the definition of the term “virtual world”), but exactly
what they persist varies.
At the most basic end of the scale, all that a world persists is its
initial state and the records for individual player characters.
AberMUDs are like this. The next step involves persisting what
the characters were carrying with them at the time
(DikuMUDs), certain classes of objects such as player characters’
corpses (EverQuest), and so on all the way up to the entire world
state (Ultima Online) and the entire world state plus all
incrementally-added functionality (MOOs).
Persistence is more dependent on the available computer
resources than is change. Put simply, the more you want to
save, the longer it will take to save it and the more space it will
take up. This is not, however, the usual reason why designers
might prefer their world to have a relatively low degree of
persistence. Adventure-oriented games in particular can have
very complicated, inter-related tasks and puzzles that have farreaching, game-wide effects; this makes them effectively
impossible to disentangle from the state of the virtual world—
you can’t unlaunch a rocket or unexplode a bomb. Designers
want to be able to reinitialize these puzzles, because if
something has taken perhaps weeks to implement, they don’t
really want it to be single-use for the benefit of only a handful of
players.
How can you reinitialize something that has all-embracing
consequences, though? Reset strategies are discussed in detail
in Chapter 4, “World Design,” but for this particular problem the
78 Chapter 1
short answer is that you can’t really reinitialize anything with
such a large root system unless you initialize the entire virtual
world. Full persistence in this situation would be a bad thing,
because persistence is all about not reinitializing. Thus,
designers of certain types of virtual worlds can have good
reasons for not wanting to persist everything across reboots.
Okay, so let’s see how these concepts of change and persistence
interact. Table 1.3 shows a six-by-six grid, with persistence
increasing left-to-right and access to content creation
increasing top-to-bottom. Major codebases and a number of
important individual worlds are positioned in the grid
depending on how far they satisfy the persistence and change
criteria listed at the heads of the columns and rows,
respectively.
Table 1.3 Persistence Versus Change
Persistence (what survives a reboot)
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 79
Change (who gets to build)
Map &
characters
Property
objects
Objects by
class
Objects
by
location
Entire
world
Functionality
Coders Shades (role-play)
MUSHes
Trained
administrators
MUD/III;
AberMUDs
DikuMUDs
Trusted
players
EverQuest Asheron’s
Call
Ultima
Online
MUD/II;
Castle
Marrach
Experienced
players
MUD2 LPMUDs MUCKs
Nonnewbies
TinyMUDs
Anyone LambdaMOO
MOOs
The first thing to notice is that there’s an apparent line running
diagonally from the top left to the bottom right, with most of
the virtual worlds appearing on or above it. What this says is
that, in general, there’s a relationship between the number of
people who have the ability to build things in a virtual world
and the persistence of their creations. Note that this alone
doesn’t say whether persistence implies building access or vice
versa, just that the two go hand in hand.
Above the diagonal, fewer groups of people can build in the
world, but what they build lasts just as long as for more relaxed
80 Chapter 1
regimes. Below the diagonal, more people can build, but what
they build doesn’t last as long as for more open architectures.
Given that there are plenty of virtual worlds above the diagonal
and few below, we can deduce that increased persistence
doesn’t really imply increased numbers of builders, but that
increased numbers of builders does perhaps imply increased
persistence. In other words, the more people who can add
content directly to a virtual world, the more of that world will
tend to persist.
Looking at the individual worlds in the grid, most commercial
games appear on the horizontal line that indicates content can
be added by trusted (because they’ve signed a contract) players
but not automatically by anyone who happens to reach some
world-defined level of expertise. Given that player-created
tangible content is believed by many designers to be the future
of virtual worlds, this reluctance to cross the line could present
something of a problem. The topic is discussed at length in
Chapter 5, “Life in the Virtual World.”
Okay, we’ve learned something, but what has any of this to do
with the soul of virtual worlds?
Let’s examine Table 1.3 another way: as quadrants of nine
squares each.
The top-left quadrant consists exclusively of adventure-oriented
virtual worlds. The designers have created a world, and they’re
strict about who can add to it. Whatever content changes they
do allow while the world is running will only persist across a
reboot under very particular conditions. Everything in the
world is how it is for a reason, and has been constructed to be
immediately captivating. The virtual world is so rich and
complex and its components so interdependent that players’
changes aren’t ever going to be able to do it justice. Sure, players
can make changes to the world through their actions within the
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 81
world, but those changes don’t ever last for long because they
disappear whenever the world is reinitialized. The world
entirely belongs to the designers, like a movie entirely belongs
to its director; it has little life beyond that of its own.
The top-right quadrant also emphasizes the integrity of the
world. Only trusted people get to make changes. However, the
world itself is more open-ended, and changes will persist for a
long time. Whereas a volcanic eruption in a DikuMUD would
last until the next reboot, in Asheron’s Call it would lead to a
more or less permanent change to the environment. Some of the
things the designers put into the world are not immediately
interesting, but like seeds they may grow into something
special later (or they may not). Players can make changes
through in-context actions that have lasting effects. The world
still belongs to the designers, but when players start to live in it,
it gets a chance to evolve in ways the designers hadn’t
necessarily considered.
The bottom-left quadrant is almost empty, with only MUD2
making an appearance. The world design is so tight that little
persists from one reboot to another, but in between reboots
those players who are of sufficient experience to understand the
design can create tangible (albeit ephemeral) content. The
designers70 allow certain players to take control of the virtual
world in a major way, but they wrest ownership back with every
reboot.
The bottom-right quadrant contains almost entirely sociallyoriented virtual worlds (with LPMUDs being the only
exception). These often have little or no “game” aspect, and
building is considered part of the fun. The original designers
only create the core of the world and the means by which it can
70 Actually, because there’s only one of me, this should be “designer.”
82 Chapter 1
be extended; thereafter, they hand it over to the players to do
with as they wish (although there’s a problem if what the
players wish for is that the designers will take back control, as
they famously did with LambdaMOO).
So, following this analysis we are at last able to answer the
original question: Whose world is it?
• In the top-left quadrant, the world belongs to the designers.
• In the top-right quadrant, it also belongs to the designers,
but players have a stake because the changes they make
through their in-world actions can change the landscape.
• In the bottom-left quadrant, the world still belongs to the
designers. Players are loaned world-changing powers, but
come midnight their carriages turn back into pumpkins.
• In the bottom-right quadrant, the world belongs to the
players.
When designers begin work on a new virtual world, the
question of who is to own it should be uppermost in their
minds: It really does encapsulate the soul of the world! Of course
designers will have a vision of their world, and of course they
will consider themselves to be better designers than are their
players (not unreasonably so, despite what players71 may think).
Players are people, though, and need to be thought of as such.
How much are the designers willing to trust them to add good
new content?
• Not at all? Then go for low persistence and low change.
• A lot, if they stick to the rules? Then go for high
persistence and low change.
• A lot, but not for long? Then go for low persistence and
high change.
71 The players who haven’t read this book, that is.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 83
• Implicitly? Then go for high persistence and high
change.
Perhaps the best expression of this difference is seen in the
comparison between the early advertising slogans of Verant
(makers of EverQuest) and Skotos (makers of Castle Marrach):
• Verant: You’re in Our World Now.
• Skotos: Why Yes, I am God.
Skotos’ games have only a fraction of the players that EverQuest
has, but their slogan sells more T-shirts.
Influences on Virtual Worlds
Virtual worlds are not a self-contained phenomenon, insulated
from the real world. Trivially, the hardware on which they run is
part of the real world and therefore they themselves must be
considered a part of it. However, there are other ways in which
the real world can influence the virtual. From a designer’s point
of view, the most important of these are those that also involve
the construction of imaginary—if not quite virtual—worlds. In
practice, this means books, magazines, movies, television series,
and (perhaps most importantly) role-playing games.
Printed Works
The single most important influence on virtual worlds from
fiction is J. R. R. Tolkien’s The Lord of the Rings72 trilogy.
Although it would be of huge significance merely for having
established the genre of High Fantasy, its ultimate worth lies in
72 J. R. R. Tolkien, The Fellowship of the Ring. London, George Allen & Unwin,
1954.
84 Chapter 1
its depiction of an imagined world. It’s not the particular world
it describes that is momentous (although Middle Earth is indeed
classic source material for people writing new text-based
games); rather, it’s that creating a fully realized, make-believe
world was shown to be actually possible. Prior to The Lord of the
Rings, worlds of such depth were practically unknown.
The word “practically” is used because there were immensely
detailed imaginary worlds before, but they evolved over
centuries and had many authors. Folk tales, while perhaps
originally having some basis in fact, nevertheless changed over
the telling, drifting toward some popular shared setting that
gave listeners a context. Individual stories had a place and time,
so no background had to be given, and they in turn made a
contribution to enriching the overall canon. These collections of
tales set in what were to become shared fictional worlds gave
rise to such well-loved anthologies as Britain’s Arthurian
Legends, the Middle East’s 1001 Arabian Nights, and China’s The
Water Margin.
The other great source of imaginary worlds is religion. This is a
little trickier to discuss, because whereas few people today
would disagree that the worlds of Greek, Roman, Norse, and
Celtic gods were completely imaginary, the suggestion that
there might be fictional elements in the Jewish Torah, Roman
Catholic Apocrypha, or Hindu Ramayana—to name but a few—is
just asking for trouble. The issue of real-world religion in virtual
worlds is debated in Chapter 8, “Coda: Ethical Considerations;”
for the moment, it’s sufficient to note that religion can be a
source of imaginary worlds comparable in breadth and depth to
those that are accepted myth, but you’d have to be brave or
stupid to use a living one.
What J. R. R. Tolkien showed was that imaginary worlds did not
have to emerge from amalgamations of the ideas of many
people; it was possible for an individual to construct a believable
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 85
world from first principles (although he did draw on many
tropes from existing myth as part of Middle Earth’s
architecture). The sheer amount of vision he produced,
maintained over six books in three volumes, is breathtaking. It’s
small wonder that the imaginative possibilities raised by The
Lord of the Rings are as much an inspiration for designers of
virtual worlds today as they were for the authors of MUD1.
That said, the actual content of MUD1 wasn’t drawn from
Middle Earth. The game’s terrain was English and the
inhabitants were pure fairytale—it had “dwarfs” rather than
“dwarves,” for example, and no elves, orcs, nor hobbits
whatsoever. There was a fictional influence, but it was due to the
sword and sorcery of Robert E. Howard’s Conan the Cimmerian73
series rather than The Hobbit74. Long novels aren’t as good as
action-oriented short stories for evoking the heart-in-yourmouth style adventure that MUD1’s world was intended (among
other things) to deliver.
Beyond The Lord of the Rings, the influence of fiction on virtual
worlds is three types:
• Direct. The virtual world is an implementation of a familiar
fictional world such as Robert Jordan’s The Wheel of Time75
or Terry Pratchett’s Discworld76
.
• Partial. The virtual world is inspired by a particular work of
fiction or a genre that is derived from one. It might have the
73 Robert E. Howard, The Phoenix on the Sword. Chicago, Weird Tales, Popular
Fiction Publishing Co., December 1932.
74 J. R. R. Tolkien, The Hobbit: or There and Back Again. London, George Allen &
Unwin, 1937.
75 Robert Jordan, The Eye of the World. New York, Tor Books, 1990.
76 Terry Pratchett, The Colour of Magic. London, Colin Smythe, 1983.
86 Chapter 1
same “mutant academy” idea of Stan Lee and Jack Kirby’s XMen77, but let you create your own superheroes.
• Indirect. The virtual world implements or is inspired by some
other work which itself is an adaptation of a book or comic
series. A virtual world design team might decide to adopt
the Dungeons & Dragons magic system without necessarily
knowing that E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson (authors of
Dungeons & Dragons) themselves adopted the idea from the
novels of Jack Vance78
.
Given the choice, most professional virtual world designers
would prefer to design their own, original virtual world. They
have good enough imaginations that they don’t need to steal
from fiction (yet are regularly asked “where do you get your
ideas from?” as if they couldn’t just think them up unaided). Like
a scriptwriter adapting a book for the big screen, designers
working to a license might genuinely enjoy what they’re doing
but, deep down, they’d rather be exploring their own
imagination than someone else’s. For this reason, designers
tend to approach novels analytically, deconstructing them for
their form rather than their content.
There is, however, a fourth category of fiction that has subject
matter in itself of use to designers. These are the books that are
about virtual worlds; not in the pedagogical way that this book
is, but far more speculatively. Books of this kind are of great
interest to the designers of virtual worlds because they actually
involve consideration of design issues. Suppose that all
implementational and commercial problems have been solved,
and people can physically visit invented worlds from reality:
What might they find there?
77 Stan Lee (writer) and Jack Kirby (artist), X-Men. New York, X-Men, Marvel
Comics, September 1963.
78 Jack Vance, The Dying Earth. New York, Hillman Periodicals, 1950.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 87
In early examples of the genre, such as Larry Niven and Steven
Barnes’ Dream Park79 and Vernor Vinge’s True Names80, the
authors had not encountered virtual worlds81 and were
therefore writing from a position of pure conjecture.
Nevertheless, they raised several issues about the design of
virtual worlds that have proven to be quite prescient. Dream
Park, for example, asks questions about narrative and ownership
that were to be raised again some 20 years later when the
debate about ongoing content provision for fifth-age graphical
virtual worlds began in earnest. True Names made the
distinction between player and persona (the real-world identity
of an individual being a persona’s “true name”) and explored
some of the consequences of identity masking that this enables.
When Cyberpunk brought new meaning to the term “cutting
edge” in the Science Fiction literary scene of the mid-1980s, the
future of virtual worlds immediately seemed laid out with neon
clarity. In Dream Park, virtual worlds were glorified real-world
theme parks; in True Names, they were stored in computers that
people reached through electrode “portals” suckered to the
head; by William Gibson’s tour de force novel Neuromancer82
,
access was through neural jacks making direct electronic
connections to the brain. Surely this was to be the ultimate in
imaginary experience made real? The notion of cyberspace—
data represented as imagery within a shared virtual
environment—burst into public consciousness. Virtual worlds
were merely a manifestation of virtual reality; the interface not
79 Larry Niven and Steven Barnes, Dream Park. New York, Ace Books, 1981.
80 Vernor Vinge, True Names. James R. Frenkel (ed.), Binary Star #5. New York,
Dell, 1981. Full text available at
http://members.tripod.com/erythrina/index.html.
81 Although True Names makes a direct reference to Adventure (ADVENT) and
Dream Park does the same with Zork.
82 William Gibson, Neuromancer. New York, Ace Books, 1984.
88 Chapter 1
only brought the message, it determined it. The syntax shaped
the semantics.
It was easy to forget that Cyberpunk fiction was just that:
fiction. It was predictive in the cautionary sense, showing how
things might become, not how they would become. Part of
Cyberpunk’s agenda was to show that although technology
offers a way forward, people could corrupt it for their own ends.
That which has the potential to bestow liberty can be twisted to
the cause of oppression or anarchy. Thus, it was in the interests
of Cyberpunk authors to show cyberspace as a slick, high-tech
victory of form over substance, hip and happening yet shallow
and soulless but for its dark, in-shadow periphery. The cold,
objective way that virtual space was depicted (as a network of
freeform, three-dimensional statistical symbols) conveyed the
impression that getting to cyberspace was more important than
what was there when you arrived.
Many people find the neurotechnology envisaged in
Neuromancer exciting, because (were it ever available) it would
provide a means of entering a virtual world totally and
completely83. It is unlikely, however, that any virtual world they
did visit would look like a classic Cyberpunk vision unless the
designers deliberately took such as their model84. This was
acknowledged in William Gibson’s later cyberpunk novel,
Idoru85, which distinguished between network-as-medium and
network-as-place by explicitly referring to virtual worlds as
MUDs.
83 Personally, I’d rather eat my own eyeballs than have a chip in my head.
84 A virtual world set in a fictional Cyberpunk milieu such as Neuromancer’s
“Sprawl” has, of course, been done many times. A fact sadly lost on the “kewl
d00ds” who play games such as EverQuest as if merely being in cyberspace
meant being in Cyberpunk.
85 William Gibson, Idoru. New York, G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1996.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 89
Cyberpunk teaches designers a number of valuable lessons
about the sociology and psychology of players and the
responsibilities of developers. Virtual worlds are not insulated
from the real world; they can’t be regarded as solely the purview
of their designers, publishers, or even players. Their influence
extends into the real world, and therefore the real world extends
into them. Ultimately, though, the relationship is one-sided: The
real world always wins in the end.
Cyberpunk was the evangelizing prophet of virtual reality, but,
once the hype died down, other authors were able to look at the
new reality and use that as their starting point for speculative
work. Media darling LambdaMOO was an obvious first point of
contact for people considering writing speculatively about
virtual worlds, although in itself it was hardly representative of
what was already out there.
Perhaps the most impressive of those novels first to be informed
by extant virtual worlds is Tad Williams’ Otherland86 series. This
monumental87 work traces the fortunes of a number of
disparate individuals accessing the “Otherland” virtual world of
its title. Among the many things the series gets right that
Cyberpunk got wrong are
• Client/server model dynamics. The gradual shift in
importance from how powerful the client hardware is to
how powerful the server hardware is.
• Multi-faceted worlds within worlds. This is typical of MOOs
and other builder-centric codebases (such as the book’s
“Otherland”).
86 Tad Williams, City of Golden Shadow. New York, DAW books, 1998.
87 Four paperbacks weighing a total of 850g—about a pound each. I told you
it was impressive!
90 Chapter 1
• Inter-world object mapping, so that taking an object from
one sub-world to another replaces it with a functional
equivalent (an analogue). This is indeed how designers
intend to handle transfers of objects and characters between
virtual worlds.
• Player attitudes to gender-presentation betrayal. When
people say they’re something they aren’t and get in too deep.
• Understanding of immersion (the sense of being “in” a
virtual world). Cyberpunk mistook visualization for
immersion: The two are not the same.
• Virtual worlds modeled on the real world. If what you see
looks and behaves like reality, you feel you’re “there” more
than if it looks and behaves like a gridwork of platonic solids.
• Recognizing that people have expectations of degrees of
reality within the virtual world. Fulfilling these expectations
leads to increased immersion and denying it leads to
decreased immersion. People don’t want worlds to have
anthropomorphic content merely because they feel more
comfortable in them that way.
• The difficulty of distinguishing between computergenerated characters in the virtual world and ones under the
control of human beings, and (more importantly) the
consequences of not being able to tell. People have already
been fooled into believing that virtual players are real ones
for extended periods; many more will undoubtedly follow.
Of course, the series also gets some things wrong of its own
account. The attitude that characters (in the first book) have to
persona death, for example, is at odds with how people in the
real world tend feel on the subject (real people are far less stoic).
On the whole, though, it offers much for virtual world designers
to ponder. Besides, no designer could possibly criticize a book
that names a virtual mall after LambdaMOO and has the
opening line:
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 91
It started in mud, as many things do88
.
Film and Television
Most original fictional ideas appear in magazine, comic, or book
form first, because these are far less expensive to produce than
movies or TV series (or even stage plays). Many of the topgrossing movies, year after year, are based on stories or
characters that first appeared in print.
Unsurprisingly, the influence of film and television on virtual
worlds falls into the same categories as does that of books and
comics:
• Direct. Star Wars Galaxies is set in the Star Wars89 universe.
There are textual virtual worlds based on Buffy the Vampire
Slayer90, The Lion King91, Battlestar Galactica92 and Tron93—
to name but a few.
• Partial. There are virtual worlds derived from the concept
behind A Bug’s Life94
. Toontown95 is a graphical world set in
the Disney cartoon universe.
88 I asked Tad Williams, and he confirmed that this really is a sly reference to
MUD (that is, MUD1). Is that groovy or what?
89 George Lucas (writer and director), Star Wars. USA, 20th Century Fox, 1977.
90 Joss Whedon, Buffy the Vampire Slayer. USA, WB network, 1997.
91 Irene Mecchi, Jonathan Roberts, and Linda Woolverton (writers) and Roger
Allers and Rob Minkoff (directors), The Lion King. USA, Walt Disney Pictures,
1994.
92 Donald P. Bellisario, Battlestar Galactica. USA, ABC network, 1978.
93 Steven Lisberger (writer and director) and Bonnie Macbird (writer), Tron.
USA, Walt Disney Pictures, 1982.
94 John Lasseter and Andrew Stanton (writers and directors) and Joe Ranft
(writer), A Bug’s Life. USA, Walt Disney Pictures, 1998.
95 http://www.toontown.com
92 Chapter 1
• Indirect. The original Sailor Moon96 comic books were
concordantly made into an animated series, which in turn
was implemented as a virtual world (indeed, several of
them).
• Meta. The Truman Show97 says much about virtual world
design, of narrative, and of the nature of reality.
Because of the crossovers between the media, the treatment of
virtual worlds in film and television has paralleled that of
novels, from the theme park beginnings of Michael Crichton’s
Westworld98 to the neural implants of the Wachowski brothers’
The Matrix99. Superficially, then, it appears as if books and
movies will always tend to explore the same themes. This is not,
however, necessarily the case.
It is the nature of books to tell and films to show. Thus,
Westworld showed damaged robots being repaired for reinsertion into the virtual world (identifying what later came to
be known as spawning), whereas Dream Park told what it was
like to play (presaging the “it’s just a game” arguments that still
surface today).
By showing, a movie or TV series can present a situation in a
direct manner, whereas a book (or even a comic) would take
time to tell the same thing. If you see an image on a screen, it
can convey in an instant what might take a minute to read.
There are limitations on what can be shown, though, that don’t
96 Naoko Takeuchi, Bishoujo Senshi Sailor Moon. Tokyo, Nakayoshi, Kodansha,
February 1992.
97 Andrew Niccol (writer) and Peter Weir (director), The Truman Show. USA,
Paramount Pictures, 1998.
98 Michael Crichton (writer and director), Westworld. USA, Metro-GoldwynMayer, 1973.
99 Andy Wachowski and Larry Wachowski (writers and directors), The Matrix.
USA, Warner Brothers, 1999.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 93
apply to what can be told (you can’t really “show” thoughts, for
example, just the consequences of people having had them).
Books are about imagination, whereas films are about sensory
experience. Films concretize what books visualize. It’s not an
inconsistency of law that heavily pornographic movies are
illegal but heavily pornographic literature isn’t: With films, what
you see is what you get; with books, what you get is what you
see.
For designers of virtual worlds, one of the most important
tropes from film and TV that would not work as well in print is
the holodeck from Gene Roddenberry’s Star Trek: The Next
Generation100 and spin-offs (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine101 and, in
particular, Star Trek: Voyager102). The holodeck is a
programmable environment with which real (in the context of
the TV show) people can interact as if it were (their) reality. For
example, a character might create and then enter a simulation
of Victorian London, assuming the role of Sherlock Holmes. This
works on the screen better than it does on the page because the
world and the character’s degree of immersion in it are
immediately apparent; they require no unveiling. The situation
is at once accepted, and the episode can progress to examining
the issues it suggests. This can’t happen in a book unless you’re
already familiar with the concept of holodecks from the TV
show.
Holodecks, although occasionally used for serious purposes
such as testing engine designs, are primarily viewed within the
Star Trek universe as an entertainment medium. From this
perspective, the main lessons to be learned from holodecks are
100 Gene Roddenberry, Star Trek: The Next Generation. USA, Paramount, 1987.
101 Rick Berman and Michael Piller, Star Trek: Deep Space Nine. USA,
Paramount, 1993.
102 Rick Berman, Jeri Taylor, and Michael Piller, Star Trek: Voyager. USA,
Paramount, 1995.
94 Chapter 1
• They allow characters to express sides of themselves that
they may not be able to do in reality103. One captain may
play a low-life film noir detective; another, a romantic
lead. The holodeck is a liberating, albeit temporary,
release from reality.
• They distinguish between undirected and directed
environments. A representation of a bar where
characters can go to hang out would be an example of the
former; an interactive “holonovel” to prevent a 1930sstyle evil emperor from ruling the galaxy (while rescuing
a feisty princess) would be an example of the latter.
• Creating virtual environments is in itself a fun activity.
• The representation of a living person without their
permission is rude, but not forbidden. This is just as well,
given that they always find out.
• They are a magnet for alien life forms unable to
distinguish between the false reality presented by the
holodeck and the true reality in which the holodeck
exists. It’s a metaphor for people who believe everything
they see on TV104
.
• They malfunction to the extent that they pose a greater
threat to the health of crewmembers than a direct hit
from a photon torpedo to the ship’s hull with all shields
down. This is as a consequence of Star Trek itself being
subject to the same laws of drama that it imposes on its
holonovels.
Many of the virtual worlds that exist today are, in some ways,
more mature than Star Trek’s vision of the future; this is
particularly the case with regards to the social norms that have
evolved through their use. However, where the concept of the
103 “Reality” here is in the context of the Star Trek universe, not ours.
104 Or read in books, such as this one.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 95
holodeck is most useful is in thought experiments: Were
holodecks to exist, what new areas of narrative, performance,
and self-awareness would they enable? Are these desirable or
undesirable consequences? Could these new areas already
exist—or be made to exist— in some form, using the
technology of today?
The difference between showing and telling is not the only one
between books and movies. Equally important is that, in
general, movies will get more exposure (and will therefore be
more influential) than books. This means they will provide a
greater cultural touchstone. Few people have read Philip K.
Dick’s short story We Can Remember It for You Wholesale105, but
the movie it inspired, Total Recall106, grossed $119,394,839 in the
United States alone in 1990107. The movie might cause virtual
world designers to consider how to stop player involvement
derailing prewritten plot lines; the short story won’t, simply
because few—if any—designers have read it.
In the same way that some worlds work better as books than on
the screen (for example, C. S. Lewis’s Chronicles of Narnia108
series) and some work better as movies than in print (for
example, George Miller and James McCausland’s Mad Max109
series), some virtual worlds work better in text than in graphics
and vice versa. The reasons for this are explained in Chapter 4,
but for now it’s enough simply to note the fact because it leads
105 Philip K. Dick, We Can Remember It for You Wholesale. New York, The
Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, Mercury Press, April 1966.
106 Ronald Shusett & Dan O’Bannon and Gary Goldman (writers) and Paul
Verhoeven (director), Total Recall. USA, TriStar, 1990.
107 Source: http://www.boxofficemojo.com/y90.html
108 C. S. Lewis, The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. London, Geoffrey Bles,
1950.
109 George Miller (writer and director) and James McCausland (writer), Mad
Max. Australia, American International Pictures, 1979.
96 Chapter 1
to an interesting analogy (that most readers will doubtless have
figured out already).
Basically, it can be constructive to regard textual virtual worlds
as being like books, and graphical ones as being like movies.
Books and textual worlds are cheap to create, more amenable to
risk-taking, and they talk to the imagination; movies and
graphical worlds are highly expensive productions, less inclined
to experiment, and they talk to the senses. Similarly, few textual
virtual worlds have the same profile as graphical ones, so when
people see that Star Wars Galaxies has a hairdressing skill and
think it’s cool, they won’t necessarily know that text-based
games like Castle Marrach have had the same thing for years.
They just think Star Wars Galaxies is better than EverQuest.
So it goes.
Books and movies, well known and respected art forms that
they are, nevertheless rarely contain practical information that
virtual world designers can actually use. They can suggest
genres, directions, issues, problems, and (occasionally) solutions,
but not in any great detail. It’s like using a Canaletto painting of
Venice as source material for a novel set in the city in 1740: You
may get a great sense of La Serenissima’s atmospheric grandeur,
and may in time be able to construct an impression of what
everyday life there might have been like, what challenges the
people faced; on the whole, though, a resident’s diary would be
far more useful for your purposes.
So is there an equivalent to the resident’s diary for virtual world
designers, for those times when realism is preferred to
idealism?
Yes, there is: role-playing games.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 97
Role-Playing Games
Role-playing games (RPGs) have always had an important
influence on virtual worlds.
Role-playing is basically acting, and therefore has its roots in
ancient history. It has many uses beyond theatrical expression
(for example in psychology, education, and training), but it
wasn’t until the 1973 arrival of E. Gary Gygax and Dave
Arneson’s Dungeons & Dragons (D&D)
110 that the concept of roleplaying games finally crystallized. Dungeons & Dragons was a
fusion of traditional tabletop wargames and interactive
storytelling, in which one player (the referee, later to be known
as the Dungeon Master/Mistress (DM) or Games
Master/Mistress (GM)) designed an imaginary world into which
a number of players would go. The referee would describe what
the players could see, hear, feel, and so on, and the players would
explain what they (or, more correctly, their characters) would
do. The referee would then roll a few dice to determine the
consequences of these actions in the context of the imaginary
world, which would in turn cause the players to try new actions,
and so on. Virtual worlds are very close to tabletop RPGs except
they have computerized referees.
Being games, RPGs need rules. Because the referee has to
construct the imaginary world, these rules do not only describe
how to play the game but how to create a game world—which
may entail writing new, world-specific rules. Thus, these are
actually rule systems. Although referees can and do create vast
campaigns (as these worlds, or partial worlds, are known), it
takes a lot of time to do so. For this reason, referees may use
rule sets that have been adapted for their chosen genre
(imperial Rome, horror, far future, wild west, whatever) and use
110 E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson, Dungeons & Dragons. Lake Geneva WI,
Tactical Studies Rules, 1973.
98 Chapter 1
these as a starting point. Others will acquire predefined
modules, often written by professional games designers, which
define a self-contained sub-world. These sub-worlds have
explicit goals for the players and solution paths appropriate to
the players’ characters’ abilities.
Some of the genre-specific information researched for these
games can save valuable time for the designers of those virtual
worlds that are set in the same place or period (which, as
tabletop role-playing games tend to draw on the same fictional
and historical influences as virtual worlds, is often the case).
Indeed, the information they provide can be so well organized,
accurate, and complete that it can benefit people not remotely
interested in role-playing games or virtual worlds. Anyone
wanting to write about, say, the golden age of piracy, should
seriously consider buying a specialist rule set for that genre as a
starting point111
.
Virtual worlds can therefore benefit from tabletop RPGs in four
important areas:
• The basic rules of the game.
• The rules for creating an imaginary world.
• Rule sets for particular genres.
• Modules for actual game experiences.
It is no coincidence that this reflects well the driver/mudlib/
world model/instantiation breakdown of virtual world codebase
architecture; the two systems really do have a lot in common.
They even have branches at some of the same points: Steve
111 Where else are you going to find out how many knots a 300-ton pinnace
beating a 5-knot wind could make?
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 99
Jackson’s GURPS112 system, for example, is LPMUD-like in that it
provides common gaming and creation rules for different
environments (feudal Japan, swashbucklers, time travel, you
name it), whereas Kevin Siembieda’s Rifts113 system is more
MUSH-like in that it ties multiple sub-worlds into a single
coherent whole.
Virtual worlds borrow from RPGs at all levels. MUD1’s level
system came from D&D, as a neat way to give players
intermediate goals. The DikuMUD codebase draws heavily on
first edition Advanced Dungeons & Dragons (AD&D) and
Bioware’s reincarnated NeverWinter Nights implements the 3rd
edition AD&D rules very faithfully indeed. There are textual
worlds set in environments designed for role-playing games,
such as Mark Rein Hagen’s Vampire: The Masquerade114. There
are even virtual worlds based on specific game modules, for
example city campaigns for Ed Greenwood’s Forgotten Realms115
.
Although pencil-and-paper role-playing games can be used as a
means to “dry run” virtual worlds, it is a mistake to believe that
everything in the one is always transferable to the other. The
two may be similar, but they are not identical; where they differ,
the differences are profound.
The human referees of role-playing games have an intelligence
that the computer referees of virtual worlds do not. They can
create new content immediately, and are responsive to the
needs of their players. What they lack, however, is speed,
112 Steve Jackson: GURPS: Generic Universal RolePlaying System. Austin, TX,
Steve Jackson Games, 1986.
113 Kevin Siembieda, Rifts. Taylor MI, Palladium Books, 1990.
114 Mark Rein Hagen, Vampire: the Masquerade. Stone Mountain GA, White
Wolf Games Studio, 1991.
115 See http://www.cc.jyu.fi/~tojan/fore/forefaq.htm for the Forgotten Realms
story.
100 Chapter 1
memory, and bandwidth. A human-moderated world may be
more vivid than a computer-moderated one (because its level of
detail can be tailored to the moment), but it doesn’t work the
same way as the real one and is thus ultimately less
convincing
116
.
What’s more, players of a human-moderated world can exert
out-of-context influence over the referee and each other. If a
squid picks up a sword and starts fighting with it, a player
might say to a human referee, “Hey, squids can’t do that!” The
referee can reply appropriately to the situation. For example: “If
you check the manual, page 54…” (correcting a misconception);
“this one can” (mild hint); “perhaps it only looks like a squid?”
(stronger hint); “some swords can control their wielders, you
know” (misdirection); “you’re right, its balance would be all
wrong” (recognition of mistake); “you spot a thin wire attached
to the sword” (taking the objection as an implicit command for
the character to look closer).
If a squid picks up a sword in a computer-moderated world,
well, the squid picks up the sword. The virtual world is as
inviolate as the real one: Waving your fist at rain clouds while
asking your deity of preference what you’ve done to deserve a
soaking may make you feel better, but on the whole you’re not
going to get an apology117
.
116 Computer-moderated worlds don’t work the same way either, of course,
but they act enough like the real world to merit the term “virtual.” Note that
this is to do with how a computer-moderated world handles multiple events
in parallel in (near) real time, rather than the differences between speech,
text, and graphics.
117 Some heavily role-playing virtual worlds may be flexible enough to do this,
and ones with strongly-managed storyline events (for example, Achaea) can
do it too. It basically depends on whether there’s an administrator on hand
able to address the issue there and then; in this case, there effectively is a
deity for you to wave your fist at!
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 101
So what developments in human-moderated worlds don’t
transfer to computer-moderated (that is, virtual) worlds?
• Anything subjective. Alignment does not travel well, because
a computer can’t quantify the concepts involved. Can a
“good” character attack a player who boasts of being a thief?
What if they’ve seen the character steal something? What if
the theft was of an object that had itself been stolen from the
thief? What if the thief originally bought the object from a
fence, who got it from another thief? Human beings can
make value judgments, but computers are hopeless at it.
• Anything individualistic. Most modern role-playing games are
classless and skills-based. They let players decide the
directions in which to advance their characters. Most virtual
worlds have classes, races, and guilds to coerce players to
band together. This helps players who don’t know each other
in real life to bond; it also serves as a means to introduce
goals into player activities. It promotes role-playing118
.
• Not everything theoretical. Although the general principles of
world design and role-playing have been analyzed over the
years, and a good deal of what has been discovered is indeed
applicable to virtual worlds, not all of it is. The danger here is
that the studious virtual world designer will miss the
boundary and go too far (for example, in creating believable
non-player characters) or emphasize the wrong thing (for
example, plotting over atmosphere).
• Anything meta-interactive. Players can interact with a virtual
world119, but they can’t do so beyond its context. Builders can
breach the context, but they can only act on the virtual
118 Actually, it doesn’t. The heaviest role-playing virtual worlds (MUCKs,
MUSHes) have fewer constraints on characters, not more. This is a pet peeve
of mine, which will become more evident when I harp on about it in Chapter
3.
119 Players for whom this is their defining activity are called “explorers.” See
Chapter 3.
102 Chapter 1
world, they can’t enter any kind of dialogue with it. Players of
diceless role-playing games like Erick Wujcik’s Amber120, on
the other hand, interact with the referee (that is, the world)
the entire time.
So long as these distinctions are not important to the rule
system, a transfer is possible. Gary Gygax’s RPG Lejendary
Adventure is now being developed as a virtual world121. It is
possible.
Transfers (and non-transfers) of expertise in the opposite
direction, while perhaps important for the designers of roleplaying games, are of little consequence for the designers of
virtual worlds; they are therefore not considered here, except to
note that there is a significant overlap between the “hard core”
virtual world players, the players of single-player role-playing
games such as Bioware’s Baldur’s Gate, and the players of penciland-paper role-playing games122
.
It should be mentioned that there is a third option for roleplaying that calls on neither computers nor human beings to
moderate the world. This is live-action role-playing (LARP), where
people use the real world to model a fantasy world123. In
Dungeons & Dragons, you roll dice to see if your arrow hits an
enemy; in Dark Age of Camelot, the computer calculates the
odds; in a LARP, the flight of the (safety-tipped) arrow through
the air is the only measure of success. Things the game wants to
have that the real world doesn’t are represented by symbols. For
example, casting magic spells might be represented by
120 Erick Wujcik, Amber Diceless Role-Playing. Detroit, Phage Press, 1992.
121 http://di.gamepoint.net/lejendary/en/
122 Newt Forager, a secondary character in Jolly R. Blackburn’s Knights of the
Dinner Table comic book series, got into role-playing games from playing
MUDs. Aren’t you glad that you read all these footnotes?
123 In practice, there are human referees too, but they’re not essential.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 103
throwing flour or birdseed at the target, or by passing a small
token.
The influence of LARP on the design of virtual worlds has not
been great, mainly because of the relatively small numbers of
people involved. This is a shame, as there are many different
LARP systems of potential interest to virtual world designers,
offering practical illustrations that ground the mere speculation
of, say, Dream Park. Virtual world designers are, on the whole,
aware of LARP, but not appraised of it. They’re consequently
more likely to talk to actors rather than LARPers when they
have their next brilliant idea to pay people to spend eight hours
a day in character while role-playing personalities in their
worlds. This is another shame.
Why isn’t LARP more popular? Practical matters of organization
aside, the main problem is that content in LARP is thinner and
more expensive than in tabletop role-playing games or virtual
worlds. If the referee of a tabletop game creates a village near a
mine, it doesn’t matter if the adventurers never visit it—the
content can be used elsewhere, the next time a generic village is
needed. For a virtual world, it matters only slightly less; players
may not visit the village very often or for the reasons the
designer intended, but they will nevertheless visit it in time. In a
LARP, if the adventurers don’t make an appearance it means
several people have been sitting around in villager costume for
an entire afternoon to no avail; for this reason, LARPs’ gameplay
is often more collect-the-plot-piece oriented than their cousins’,
with most of the fun coming from the deep role-playing
involved rather than the adventuring. While role-playing to this
degree is great fun for many people124, it can be very hard to get
124 Although it’s not strictly LARP, I’ve seen re-creations of English Civil War
battles that involved several thousand people (excluding ambulance staff).
104 Chapter 1
into, particularly if you’re shy or retiring (that is, actually likely
to be good at role-playing).
One thing that these real world- and human-moderated worlds
do show is that the role-playing experience can transcend any
preconceptions of something being “only” a game. Role-playing
is routinely used for non-game purposes, and appeals to people
who would not (nor would they wish to) consider themselves as
gamers. It’s even used as a game by people who don’t see
themselves as gamers—How to Host a Murder is basically a
mini-LARP. Many of the people who visit EverQuest, Ultima
Online, and Star Wars Galaxies do not believe themselves to be
gamers at all (which is only fair, given that they aren’t).
Other Influences
The design of virtual worlds is influenced by printed works, film,
television, and role-playing games. Individual worlds may draw
from other fields, too; for example, there are text MUDs set in
console game worlds like that of Hironobu Sakaguchi’s Final
Fantasy series, and there are scripting languages based on those
used for military simulations. Anything requiring imagination
can potentially be of value: These genuinely are “imaginary”
worlds.
However, external factors are not the only ones at work here.
The greatest influence on the design of virtual worlds is (for
better or for worse) the player base. Thus, anything that can
influence existing or prospective players is itself an influence on
the design of the virtual worlds they elect to play.
Some of this influence falls into the domain of marketing, which
from the point of view of a designer can be viewed as a single
pressure that is a convenient abstraction of the many other
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 105
pressures the designer really, really doesn’t want to know about.
Further influence comes from customer service, which affects
game designers more (in that they have to plan for it in their
design), but again it can be viewed as a single pressure that is
the summation of many other pressures off the designer’s radar.
The remaining sources of influence are more direct, and should
be consulted regularly:
• Competitors. Virtual worlds evolve by trying new ideas, yes,
but also by taking ideas that work from other virtual worlds
and by discarding ideas that have been shown to fail. Every
virtual world has some innovation, and they shouldn’t be
ignored simply because they weren’t written by you or they
use a different genre.
• Opinion-forming publications. Reviews are important, as are
regular columns: After all, even if a columnist were
unilaterally to refer to virtual worlds as “MMO*s”, sooner or
later players would show up calling them MMO*s. However,
a magazine’s editorial policy matters the most, as it sets the
tone for the articles. Computer Gaming World treats virtual
worlds in a different manner than Wired, even though both
are admirably responsible about the subject. Readers of one
will get a different impression of virtual worlds than readers
of the other.
• Opinion-forming players. Players listen to each other, whether
it’s in the virtual world, in an online forum, or at a rant site.
Surprisingly for designers, not every word uttered by
players is patent nonsense; surprisingly for marketers and
customer service people, not every word uttered by players
is blindingly insightful. Players can swirl into a great
maelstrom of creativity, but few of them truly understand
106 Chapter 1
game design125. This is a theme that surfaces time and time
again when considering the design of virtual worlds.
Designers should not delude themselves that they can
manipulate any of the above. Your fellow designers will usually
be only too happy to explain to you those advances of which
they’re particularly proud (it’s not like these things can be kept
secret once beta-testing begins), but they won’t change their
minds on your say-so. Similarly, although those journalists that
your marketers allow you to speak to may seem wide-eyed and
gullible, that doesn’t mean they really are. As for manipulating
players, the customer service departments of some virtual
worlds prohibit designers from even speaking to them, so
disastrous can the consequences be if they do!
These are sources that can influence designers; the only way to
influence them in return is through the designed virtual worlds.
The Designer
The role of virtual world designer is fraught with paradoxes.
You have to be imaginative yet realistic; deep-thinking yet
practical; surprising yet dependable; an individual yet part of a
team; a doer yet a listener. You have to know a lot about some
things and at least a little about everything else.
This chapter has presented the context. If you didn’t already,
you should now know where virtual worlds are, how they got to
be that way, and where they seem to be headed. Whether they
actually do go in that direction is another matter. It all depends
on people like you.
125 Those who have read this book, of course, will be able to claim otherwise.
Introduction to Virtual Worlds 107
Subsequent chapters of this book lay out the choices before you,
but only you can decide which to make.
The options suggested are only that, options. If you look at them
and think, “they wouldn’t work in my virtual world,” you could
well be right; that isn’t to say they wouldn’t work in someone
else’s, though. Players are often quick to go to the specific when
they should be staying at the general. “You can’t have
permanent death in EverQuest!” Well, of course not—EverQuest
was designed not to have permanent death in it; adding the
concept would be as misguided as placing a learn-to-play-golf
feature in a Saturday night chat show. It doesn’t fit the format.
In an afternoon sports magazine, hey, it might work. In a new
series targeted at the recently retired, it would make perfect
sense.
You can taste ideas to see if you like them, but you don’t have to
swallow them whole. Besides, even if they’re your favorites, they
might not go together. Italian cuisine does not call for pistachio
ice cream to be added to spaghetti bolognaise.
Question the paradigms, avoid stagnation. You have to
understand a system before you can challenge it, but that doesn’t
mean you have to accept it. Just because you see a list of ideas
here, that doesn’t mean it’s exhaustive. The virtual worlds
people remember are the ones that are different, not the ones
that are the same.
After the success of the Harry Potter series, children’s book
publishers went all out to find the next Harry Potter. Everyone
likes plucky, magic-wielding youngsters! Well, up to a point:
What they actually like is Harry Potter. Whatever the next big
children’s publishing sensation turns out to be, about the only
thing you can say about it is that it won’t look like Harry Potter.
108 Chapter 1
Those companies writing virtual worlds that are EverQuest
clones are scrapping for crumbs from the high table.
Read, assimilate, understand. Then think for yourself.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 109
Chapter 2
How to Make Virtual
Worlds
Virtual worlds are implemented using complicated pieces of
software, but, contrary to what many developers would like to
believe, they are by no means the most sophisticated programs
in existence. Modern operating systems comfortably beat them,
and they’re dwarfed by major projects, such as air traffic control
networks. When you read the following, therefore, remember
that it could all be much, much worse.
This book is written from the perspective of a virtual world
designer. The fun part of design is the creativity; the boring part
is what you have to learn to inform the creative process. It’s not
surprising that many designers therefore omit this step. This is
a Bad Thing. It is not enough to have played or even coded other
virtual worlds; to do a good job, you have to understand how
they work. For example, a college student putting together a
textual virtual world might try out different codebases to see
which is the most appropriate. Well yes, that sounds only
110 Chapter 2
sensible. However, it would be like someone who knows how to
drive taking a selection of cars for a spin before deciding which
to use as the basis for designing a car of their own. There is
more to designing cars than finding something that suits your
driving style; there is more to designing virtual worlds than
finding something that suits your playing style. Before you can
make a start you need to be aware of how virtual worlds
function, what the components are, how they fit together, what
can go wrong, and a whole host of other things.
A student building a virtual world from a kit has the excuse that
in doing so they might actually learn some of the important
design principles involved. The student’s next world will
consequently be much improved. Professional virtual world
designers can fall back on no such justification. There are some
things that they simply ought to know beforehand, whether or
not they want to.
It’s this background knowledge that this chapter is intended to
impart.
Development
Design is just one part of creating a virtual world. Designers like
to think it’s the most important part, but is it?
• Designers have wild, airy-fairy imaginings.
• Programmers do the actual work of building the virtual
world.
• Artists are the magicians who imbue it with form.
• Sound engineers determine the moods and emotions.
• Operations staff are the engineers who keep it running.
• Producers provide the resources.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 111
Anyone can have wild imaginings. Only people with specialist
skills can program, or draw, or compose, or run networks, or
manage a project. Why are designers so important?
Because, if a designer screws up, the consequences for the
virtual world can be devastating.
A piece of code that doesn’t work may be hard to track down,
but once discovered it’s usually easy to correct. An odd-looking
yet crucial texture may need to be painstakingly redrawn, but
it’s still only a single bitmap. However, if a designer makes a
seemingly minor misjudgment, the effects could be so pervasive
that they might paralyze a world for weeks.
If you find that hard to believe, consider a virtual world in which
non-player shopkeepers sell goods at fixed prices. What happens
if there is inflation in this virtual economy? Pretty soon, you can
have whatever you want for peanuts. What happens if there’s
deflation? Even trivial items cost so much that only the very
rich can afford them. What factors affect inflation/deflation? Oh,
just about all of them—in hideously intertwined ways as
determined by the actions of the designer.
Broken economies are not pretty. At one point, Asheron’s Call’s
currency became so worthless that players had to barter if they
wanted to acquire goods from one another. This went on for
months before it was finally brought under control; the debacle
cost AC dearly.
So, that’s why design is the most important thing about
creating virtual worlds—it has the highest price of failure.
The Team
Design might be the most important cog in the machine that
creates virtual worlds, but that isn’t to say the other
112 Chapter 2
components are unimportant. Some are absolutely critical: If a
server crashes, for example, every minute it stays down will be
paid for in cancelled accounts. Designers have to know about
these things, so they can account for them in their virtual world
design.
Designers should have not only a realistic idea of their own
place in the system, but also a sound knowledge of the roles of
the other people involved in the creation process. Composers
don’t have to know how to play every instrument in an
orchestra, but it’s essential that they know how all the
instruments sound; designers can’t be expected to know how
programmers or artists do what they do, but they must be
aware of any limitations. If you want every wall of your virtual
palace to have a stunning, original fresco on it, you can think
again.
To create a virtual world is creating a piece of software. That’s
not all it is, of course— it’s creating a community, a service, a
place—but these count for little if there isn’t an engine to run
the world.
A typical software engineering company is organized along
functional lines that cover the following areas:
• Company leadership
• Sales and marketing
• Finance and accounting
• Software development, support, and quality assurance
(QA)
• Operations and information technology (IT)
• Human resources (HR)
Some of these may be split into separate sections, for example
sales might be distinct from marketing; on the whole, though,
the preceding list is fairly uncontentious. Note that normally
How to Make Virtual Worlds 113
there is no specific group responsible solely for product
specification; the task falls to whoever sources the software,
which in many cases could well be the customer.
A typical computer games development company is organized
in much the same way, but with some games-specific
differences:
• An art and animation section is added.
• An audio (music, sound effects) section is added (unless
outsourced).
• QA is expanded, and is formally separated from actual
software development.
• A (usually small) design group is added; its members will be
paid less, but get more fan kudos, than their coworkers.
For developers of massively multiplayer, graphical virtual
worlds, the games development model is used except:
• The design group is expanded.
• The operations group (which maintains and supports the
hardware on which the system will run) is expanded.
• The support group (which deals with players, both inside
and outside the virtual world) is greatly expanded, and is
formally separated from actual software development. It will
usually reabsorb the QA section.
The company leadership, HR, IT, and finance/accounting people
only occasionally bother designers. Designers have a dialogue
with sales/marketing that may be in balance or lopsided (“This
is the kind of world we want you to design” versus “This is the
kind of world we want you to sell”1
).
1 Marketing people consider themselves to have expert knowledge of what
players like and dislike. They may indeed have this knowledge. The friction
114 Chapter 2
Designers tell the operations, artwork, and audio experts what
needs to be done, but generally leave them to it. Designers
interact mostly with:
• The programmers (because designers are never specific
enough about what they want, except when they’re so
enthusiastic that they try to tell the programmers how to
program2
).
• QA (because testers spot more design flaws than they do
programming bugs and operations problems).
• Support (because players spot more design flaws than
QA people).
• Each other (because although this book keeps referring
to “the designer” of a virtual world, there’s usually a
design team, led by a lead designer).
When work on a new virtual world begins, a core team is
assembled. For a small world, this could be a single individual
performing multiple tasks; indeed, it might never get any
bigger. For a large-scale world, though, it is merely the nucleus
about which a
full-blown development effort will form. A core team consists of
the:
• Producer
• Lead designer
• Lead programmer(s) (server, client)
• Lead artist(s) (environment, inhabitants/characters)
comes from when they try to tell designers what features should be
added/removed/changed to exploit the virtual world.
2
It’s particularly important that programmers don’t feel that they can ad lib
features of their own.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 115
There may be two lead programmers because client
programming is something best done by people with a
background in computer games development, and server
programming is best done by people with a background in
software engineering. Programming is becoming a
progressively more specialized field, and programmers expert in
one area may need training to work in another.
There may be two lead artists because of the sheer quantity of
artwork involved in a graphical virtual world (albeit not when
development first starts). Strictly speaking, the “environment
artist” is in charge of the concept art—defining the look of the
virtual world. The “characters artist” is in charge of the
technical side—interfacing with the programmers. Because this
usually comes down to issues of animation, character artists
wind up being responsible for characters.
Increasingly, operations and customer service leads are being
brought in to the core team, but because their work cannot
begin until some time into the development process it’s unusual
if this occurs in a start-up company.
The Development Process
There are many steps to the development of a virtual world. For
smaller worlds with fewer players and different functionality,
some steps can be skipped or done in tandem with other steps.
To highlight every aspect of the process, however, the
description in this chapter is for a large, graphical world.
Luckily, designers don’t need to know every detail of this—
that’s the job of the producer—but they do need to have an idea
of how it breaks down. Therefore, you’ll be relieved to learn that
only an overview will be presented here, rather than a how-to
guide. If you want to find out more (and to understand why it is
that producers are paid twice as much as designers), consult
116 Chapter 2
Developing Online Games: An Insider’s Guide3 by Bridgette
Patrovsky and Jessica Mulligan (for virtual worlds) or Game
Architecture and Design4 by Andrew Rollings and Dave Morris
(for games in general).
The development of online games has four distinct phases:
• Pre-production
• Production
• Roll out
• Operation
Let’s look at these in turn.
Pre-Production
Pre-production can last as long as six months. The aim is to do all
the concept evaluation and project planning necessary to reduce
risk in the later stages of development. It’s undertaken by
members of the core team, in close consultation with one
another. In many ways, it’s the most exciting part of the project,
but it’s usually done under time pressure with inadequate
resources available, which rather dulls the edge. In particular, a
number of important deliverables will have been prepared by
the end, all of which will almost certainly have needed more
work on them than they actually received.
These deliverables are
• A visualization document. This is produced first, by the lead
designer. Although only a few pages long, it sets the tone for
3 Bridgette Patrovsky and Jessica Mulligan: Developing Online Games: An
Insider’s Guide. Indianapolis, New Riders Publishing, 2003.
4 Andrew Rollings and Dave Morris: Game Architecture and Design.
Scottsdale AZ, Coriolis, 2000.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 117
the entire endeavor, asserting the project’s mission statement,
its philosophy, its goals, its main features, and its look and feel.
• A design document. Because the designer(s) creates this, I
spend much of Chapters 3 through 5 of this book addressing
the kind of material that goes into it. For the moment, though,
suffice to say it defines things such as the world’s background,
its architecture, its mechanics (including gameplay), its
control mechanisms (how players interact with it), and its
integral community support systems5
. Specifics will be added
constantly as development continues.
• A technical design review, assessing hardware and software
requirements. What technologies are needed? What tools
(both bespoke and middleware)? The technical design review is
often folded into the design document.
• An art bible, describing the stylistic conventions to be used
along with examples illustrating the range of material
required. This is so that artists can produce work that is
consistent with a single overall look6
.
• A production management assessment, which uses the other
deliverables to gauge the project’s demands. It will include a
schedule (with milestones), resource requirement details and
some risk assessment. The schedule will be continually
updated in the light of how things actually proceed, as opposed
to how they’re supposed to proceed.
• Prototypes to provide proof of concept and to show that
potential technical difficulties can be overcome.
Pre-production is primarily a planning phase, therefore the
construction of (limited) prototypes might seem to be out of
5
In other words, it looks a lot like the strategy guide that will be sold when
the product ships, except with the most boring parts removed.
6 The artwork bible is often built up incrementally (and even informally)
during the production phase, as it isn’t always needed this early. This state of
affairs isn’t likely to last for much longer, though.
118 Chapter 2
place. Prototypes are necessary partly for commercial
reasons—they demonstrate to investors that the team can
produce the goods—but they also benefit the team itself.
They ensure standards for design, programming, and art have
been set, and that source control works. They show that the
basic principles will work, and (hopefully) can be integrated. For
companies that produce a steady stream of material for
different projects, assembly line style, the basic pathways for
communicating with the various production centers also will
have been tested.
The technical design review addresses basic issues, such as how
the server code will be modularized, what network transport
layer protocols will be used (TCP/IP versus UDP), how
background content will be trickled to clients, and how multiple
access options will be incorporated (PC/console, web browser,
mobile phone). Additionally, it has to consider topics not
directly related to the virtual world at all, primarily back-end
systems for login, billing, and so on. The necessary software
development tools (including ones for system testing and
debugging) must be acquired at this stage, in addition to as
many pieces of middleware as are suitable. In particular, even
with the typically huge license fees involved, it is usually more
cost-effective for a company to buy a database, 3D engine, and
billing system than to write its own from first principles7
.
Whether or not you can acquire useful middleware for world
creation and AI scripting is project-dependent, however,
because it requires great flexibility. Developers usually like to
have their own tame programmers available to make any
7 Programmers may resist using a third-party graphics engine, because
every programmer who ever worked in the field thinks they can do it better
than what’s already out there. Strangely, this self-belief rarely extends to the
less fun domains of databases and billing systems.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 119
necessary changes expediently, rather than having to rely on
someone else’s people to do so at short notice.
The production management assessment covers a wider brief
than its name might suggest. The term comes from the
computer games industry, where typical products don’t need a
great deal of support after they hit the stores. Computer games
management assessment therefore only needs to cover
production. Virtual worlds (whether or not games) do, however,
need to be managed after launch—immensely so! The
production management assessment for them must also extend
through the rollout and into the operation phase. This means it
has to consider things such as quality assurance, live team
management, community maintenance, content creation, and
patching. It’s also the place where the battle with the Marketing
department starts over the handling of the product’s launch.
Production
The production phase8
, which lasts between two and three years9
for a large, commercial virtual world, is when the bulk of the
programming and data creation takes place. Code must be
produced for the client, the server, and for tools. It all has to be
done in order, according to a production schedule10 set by the
producer. Tools are usually written first, because other
activities are dependent on them and because some of the code
can usually be re-used for the server or client. Tools are
required for things such as world generation, artificial
intelligence (AI) scripting, and customer service support.
It’s also a good idea to build some analysis tools, too, so that
once the world is running it will be possible to determine what
8 Also known as the implementation phase.
9 Or less, if the investment money runs out.
10 Or pipeline.
120 Chapter 2
the players, the software, and the hardware are doing without
having to ask.
The amount of server-side code needed depends on the chosen
architecture. It includes driver functionality at the level of LAN
networking (to connect the server to its peers) and
communications modules (to connect the server cluster to the
Internet). It usually includes a mudlib layer, to support the
world physics and AI system. Whether it includes a world model
layer depends on what the scripting tools produce. If it is to run
in multiple incarnations, it will not include any instantiationspecific detail (it would be too hard to make general updates
otherwise).
The client-side code will be the home of a major 3D engine plus
support for music and audio effects. Communications protocols
to connect with the server are obviously necessary, as are
software update mechanisms for when the client needs
patching (which is an inevitability).
While the programmers are busy programming, the artists are
busy creating object models (static and animated) and texture
maps, along with other miscellaneous images (for example, for
manuals, intro movies, and web sites). The volume of artwork
required is so high that it will normally be stored in its own
database so that the artists can keep track of it all. Scalability
and maintainability issues also arise for graphics11
.
The world itself is constructed using the building tools that the
programmers have created, to the specifications of the design
document. There is a fair degree of creative freedom involved in
11 This is what’s supposed to happen, anyway. Unfortunately, artists are often
proudly nontechnical and will look for any excuse not to use such a system.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 121
this activity12, which is why specialist designers usually
undertake it rather than programmers; it’s analogous to the
way that animation is generally done by artists, even though
programmers created the necessary tools.
Roll Out
Roll out is the most critical phase of development, when all the
technologies and assets created are brought together to form a
virtual world experience. It formally begins with the open beta
(test), but has its roots much earlier in the development process.
Testing takes place all the way through development, of course.
Programmers will test individual pieces of code, animators will
test animations, even designers will run data through models to
ensure that what they think will happen has a good chance of
being what will happen after players are let loose in their
handsome creation.
When enough of a virtual world is available as an integral
environment, a test server can be set up and alpha testing can
begin. This is undertaken by the designers, programmers, and
artists themselves, looking for bugs mainly in their own areas of
responsibility but also reporting anything else they discover
that seems Somehow Wrong. Around now, enlightened
developers might invite independent design consultants to take
a look, but most aren’t enlightened and don’t. Folks, the opinions
of knowledgeable people from outside the team who haven’t
been living and breathing it for two years are worth having, and
worth paying to have. Of course, this does also assume that
12 The task is known as level design in conventional games development
terminology, but there’s no real industry-standard name for it in virtual
world creation. “World-building” is coming into fashion, but is somewhat
ambiguous.
122 Chapter 2
you’ll listen to what they say rather than simply check the “hire
consultant” box on the production schedule then move on.
Alpha testing is also the stage at which trained customer
support staff can begin its learning process, subjecting the
virtual world to the kind of punishment that real players are
likely to mete out as they do so.
QA specialists may be brought in (externally or from elsewhere
in the company) to perform platform testing—seeing whether
the client runs on a representative variety of home computer
configurations—but they won’t hang around afterward as
virtual worlds are typically much greater in scope than regular
computer games and take longer to play through. Given that
customer service representatives need to have an in-depth
knowledge of the virtual world anyway, it makes sense to
provide them with enough QA training that they can perform
this task instead, while building their playing skills.
During alpha testing, anything and everything goes as bugs are
found, fixed, and their solutions reintegrated into the whole.
Eventually, however (hopefully at a point previously scheduled
by the producer), the world is stable enough to allow people into
it who are not directly involved in the development process. In
other words, players.
Initially, only a few outsiders are allowed into the virtual world.
The first ones will be those the developers specifically ask to
play, either because they are friends13 or because they are
influential yet responsible (or sounded that way on the
community message boards). A few others will be signed up
13 Yes, developers have friends. The rationale for getting them into the beta is
that honest opinions are needed from people who can be trusted. Trusted not
to mind nepotism, this would be….
How to Make Virtual Worlds 123
from a general call for play-testers, so as to disguise the fact
that most of their peers get in through the back door. Thus
begins beta testing.
At this stage, it’s a closed beta, because the world is invitationonly. As stability increases, player numbers can be gradually
increased by letting in more wannabes from the general call (a
technique known as ramping). When the barriers are lifted high
enough that the testers begin acting like real players, the world
is said to be in live beta; this may or may not coincide with the
moment the world is officially opened up to all-comers for
stress-testing—that is, when it enters open beta. Because this
final stage of testing marks the point of no return, this is when
the roll out truly begins.
Usually, computer games go into beta testing as late as possible.
Virtual worlds, not really being computer games (despite what
many of their developers seem to think), go into beta testing as
early as possible. This allows for bugs and exploits to be
discovered well before paying customers can leave over them,
all the while forging strong community bonds between the beta
testers. Some of these people may even come up with decent
ideas for improvements14
.
Roll out ends after the launch, when its legacy is passed to the
marketing department (which will have had considerable
involvement in it already). Later expansion modules may have
their own rollouts, of course, as they do the other phases of
development.
To summarize, the aim of the roll out period is to launch a
virtual world with:
14 They will, however, be minuscule in number compared to the vast hordes
that think they’ve had a brilliant idea but are sadly mistaken.
124 Chapter 2
• A seeded community
• A primed market
• Balance
• No bugs
All but the last of these are possible.
Operation
The operation phase15 begins when people start paying to enter
the virtual world. It ends when people stop paying, or when the
resources needed to support them would be better employed
(that is, make more money) elsewhere.
During the operation phase, the original design and
development team (the dev team) typically hands over control to
a new set of developers (the live team). The rationale is that the
battle-hardened dev team can move on to other projects (say,
creating the next expansion), leaving the less experienced live
team responsible for the maintenance and long-term
improvement of the virtual world. This is not always the case,
however; Dark Age of Camelot, for example, retained its dev team
for the operation phase, rather than putting the very people
who knew the project best to work elsewhere.
So what exactly does a live team do? Its tasks include the
following:
• Customer and community support.
• Network and technical support.
• Feature development and enhancement.
15 Also known as the “commercial exploitation phase” in business school
language.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 125
• Maintain overall quality of gameplay in response to player
cunning.
• Keep in step with technology (for example, new platforms,
new video cards).
• Occasionally, market (the virtual world and its intellectual
properties).
The size of the development team for a commercial virtual
world varies; generally speaking, the further into the project,
the more people are involved. Although some companies may
claim that they can produce a world capable of handling
100,000 players with only a designer, a programmer, and a clip
art package, the reality is somewhat different. As a rough idea, a
year or so into the production phase there will typically be
around 30 people in the dev team split 5:10:15 for designers,
programmers, and artists/animators.
Why mention this now? Because the live team will be three to
four times larger than the dev team! It’ll have similar numbers of
designers and programmers (maybe fewer artists16), but add a
hundred or more people in customer and community support.
For virtual worlds, the work only really begins at the operation
phase. Time and time again, this is something that developers
fail to understand—especially if they have long-time exposure
to the fire-and-forget approach of the regular computer games
industry. Virtual worlds, despite their origins, are not regular
computer games—or necessarily any kind of game at all (what
they are instead is discussed in Chapter 6, “It’s Not a Game, It’s
a…”).
16 For non-3D virtual worlds, such as Ultima Online, this could mean no
artists at all.
126 Chapter 2
On Architecture
Chapter 1, “Introduction to Virtual Worlds,” described the way
that virtual world servers are constructed in terms of four
different layers of functionality (driver, mudlib, world model,
incarnation). This is the breakdown of most interest to
designers. However, an understanding of how the rest of the
system hangs together is required, at least at an abstract level.
That’s what’s discussed next.
Overall Architecture
Actual architectures differ from developer to developer, but
they can almost all be regarded as variations of a single generic
approach that emphasizes reliability, scalability, and
maintainability. Figure 2.1 illustrates this overall architecture.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 127
Figure 2.1 Overall architecture.
Here’s how it works.
Central to the system is the user database. This is a powerful
piece of software running on its own, fast machine with lots of
storage. It contains records for all the players registered for the
virtual world. Before anyone can access content, they must first
log in; this means checking with the user database. Other parts
of the complete system (not shown in Figure 2.1) for billing,
customer service management, and patching also have access to
the user database. It’s a very important, industrial-strength
128 Chapter 2
system, and is therefore usually bought in rather than
programmed in-house.
Players have a number of options for connecting to the virtual
world. The main one is to use a client from a PC (or console or
Macintosh or Linux box—the clients will all present the same
interface, so the virtual world neither knows nor cares what
operating system they’re running under). Players may also
connect to the host by using a browser, but not to the same
extent as with a bespoke client; although there are text-based
virtual worlds that do have good browser-based (Java) clients,
no-one has yet been reckless enough to try the same kind of
thing for a full-blown 3D graphics-based one. Similarly, mobile
phones fall way short of being usable for actual play. However,
both browsers and phones can be used to obtain information
from a virtual world (for example, news, the virtual weather) or
to make changes to standing orders (for example, training
regimes, the prices of goods offered for sale). Phones and email
can be used to inform players of unfolding events, but they don’t
usually offer the chance to participate in them.
When an incoming connection is established, it is handled by a
front end. Front ends can communicate with both their target
platform (client, browser/email, mobile phone) and the user
database. Figure 2.1 shows the various front ends as separate
entities because they’re separate processes; however, in practice
they may be consolidated onto a single machine or be split
across several (for example, by real-world geography).
Individual incarnations of virtual worlds run on server clusters
(also known as shards17).
17 This term is an Ultima Online fiction to explain how come there are
multiple copies of a supposedly single world. It’s as if a mirror that reflected
the world was shattered into a myriad of tiny pieces, each such shard
reflecting the original world but in a slightly different way.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 129
The architecture of shards is described in detail shortly, but for
the moment a shard can be regarded simply as a unitary server
entity. Having approved a player for access to content, the front
end will either query the server to which the content relates (for
browser or phone connections), or pass control to the server
itself (for client connections). The server does not need to access
the user database in order to support the virtual world, because
servers deal with characters rather than players. Customer
support staff, however, deals with players rather than
characters, so they do need to be able to check the user database
from within the virtual world. This is sometimes done using a
separate database tool that they can invoke while
simultaneously using the regular client, but not always. In
particular, if the client owns18 the player’s PC, a special admin
client is needed with the database tools built in.
If this is so, then either the client has to be able to maintain two
connections (one to the server, one to the user database) or—
more easily—the server itself can issue database requests when
required, passing the results back to the client.
Server Architecture
Server clusters implement instances of the virtual world. There
may be programmed differences between them (attacking other
players might be allowed on one but not on another, for
example), but these are generally minimal in form if not effect.
The number of servers present in a cluster varies from
implementation to implementation, but it’s usually around half
a dozen or so. The number of clusters also varies, with more
18 In the sense of allowing no other processes to run while the client is
running, thereby making life difficult for hackers. It also makes life difficult
for non-hackers, though, so clients may settle for merely owning the screen.
Players still don’t generally appreciate the gesture.
130 Chapter 2
clusters being added as a product’s popularity increases
(EverQuest hit 40 server clusters in 2000, averaging around
1,500 players simultaneously on each one at peak time).
Figure 2.2 shows how a server cluster is typically configured.
Figure 2.2 Server cluster architecture.
Individual clients are connected to individual sub-servers.
Ideally, each sub-server does the same amount of work (which
How to Make Virtual Worlds 131
in practice means it handles the same number of players) as
every other sub-server. Sub-servers have access to a shared
character database19 that stores the persistent data relating to
players’ characters on this server20. This may or may not be part
of a systemwide accounts database for managing player access.
For maintainability, a large-scale world generally maintains a
separate database for environment data, which may be
partitioned into a template database, a scripting language
database, and an instantiation database (as described in Chapter
1).
Furthermore, whether these world/environment databases are
shared (as shown here) or local to each sub-server depends on
how load-balancing works. EverQuest’s zoning system, for
example, can get away with having smaller environment
databases that are controlled by individual sub-servers; only the
character database needs to be shared with the other subservers, for when characters move between zones. This is paid
for in other ways, of course, which we will discuss shortly.
The hardware implementation of a server cluster is as a bunch
of PCs or beefier hardware (typically running some flavor of
Unix) connected over a LAN.
Figure 2.2 shows the usual pathways between elements of the
server, but in fact any sub-server can talk to any other subserver should the need21 arise.
19 This was known as the persona file in MUD1.
20 For virtual worlds where characters can move between incarnations, a
single-character database may be necessary that is shared among all virtual
worlds (like the user database). On the other hand, if transfers have to be
done manually then developers can reasonably charge for the service (this is
EverQuest’s approach; they’d made over a million dollars from it by mid2002).
21 The precise definition of “need” here depends on the virtual world.
132 Chapter 2
Thus, passing players between sub-servers can be achieved
either formally (through the databases) or informally (by direct
negotiation between machines). Individual sub-servers may also
be in contact with the user database, as shown in Fig. 2.1 (but
not in Fig. 2.2, so as to prevent its suffering from dashed line
death).
I should point out that academics are experimenting with other
architectures, particularly the distributed kind much loved by
Science Fiction (Idoru and Otherland both use it, for example).
These, and those involving multicast, are not, however, likely to
be used beyond academia due to the security and liability issues
they raise.
Load Balancing
Fortunately, the arcane subject of load balancing is not
something with which designers need concern themselves
directly. However, they do need to be aware of the consequences
of whatever solution is adopted by the technical experts,
especially because they are likely to be consulted on the matter.
Ideally, a virtual world would run on a single, very powerful
computer. For textual worlds, this is already the case22
.
Graphical worlds may go the same way23, but for the moment
there are still plenty of things on which newly available
computational resources could be spent at the server side:
22 Processor speed finally ceased to be an issue for MUD2 when I replaced its
33MHz server with a swanky new 50MHz one.
23 Meridian 59 has a single-server architecture, which limited it to 200
players per incarnation at launch. Shadowbane also has a single-server
architecture, but runs on somewhat more powerful hardware.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 133
• Increasing the number of players present in each
incarnation (100,000 players on 50 servers is one thing,
but 100,000 players on 1 server is something else).
• Increasing the level of detail at which the virtual world
functions (for example, leaving footprints in the snow
that fade as it melts or as new snow falls).
• Improving the AI of the virtual world’s denizens (both in
quality and quantity).
It is therefore likely that virtual worlds will soak up whatever
additional computing power is thrown their way for quite some
time. Inexpensive machines will still be clustered, because it will
always cost less to use eight computers of power X than to use
one computer of power 8*X (although management overheads
degrade overall efficiency as new machines are added, which is
why no one would use 64 computers of power X/8)24
.
So, given that distributed servers are here to stay, how does this
affect the designer?
Well, the virtual world is too big to fit on one computer;
therefore it must be partitioned over several computers.
Sort of…
If the virtual world were inert, that is, nothing ever happened in
it, it wouldn’t need any computers at all, it would just sit on a
disk pack. It only needs computers when things happen in it.
The issue is therefore one of ensuring that activity is spread
across sub-servers such that they can all cope with the work
24 Actually, no one has yet tried. Although this kind of parallel processing
architecture frequently runs into problems for many business computing
applications, it may be that for certain partitionings of virtual worlds it’s fine.
134 Chapter 2
they have; in other words, the computational load must be
shared in a balanced way (hence load balancing).
The greatest source of activity in a virtual world is the player
community. Every moment that they are in the virtual world,
players are interacting with it. Merely moving from one location
to another entails informing every other character that can (in
the virtual world) see you do so. Yes, some activities are more of
a drain on resources than others, but they tend not to be specific
to particular playing styles. The issue is the sheer quantity of
actions being performed, not the efficiency of individual actions.
Load balancing in virtual worlds therefore generally means
ensuring that roughly the same number of players is connected
to each sub-server in the cluster.
The obvious way to do this would be to assign each incoming
player to whichever sub-server has the fewest players. It turns
out that it’s quite difficult to do this without introducing big
overheads, though. To update the instantiation database to
reflect an action, records need to be locked to prevent other subservers from also changing them at the same time (for example,
if two characters attempted to pick up the same object
simultaneously). The sub-server needs to lock all records that it
could need during an action, perform the tests to ensure that
the action is possible, make any necessary update requests, and
unlock the records. This is a lot of locking/unlocking. It would
be really handy if there were some way to block-book records in
the instantiation database for long periods without
relinquishing control of them. Are there any types of records for
which this could easily be done?
How to Make Virtual Worlds 135
Statistically, most actions performed by players involve
movement25
.
The player wants to move their character from A to B, so the
sub-server has to lock location B, check if it’s empty, if so then
move the player into location B, then unlock it. Location A must
also be locked, so anyone wanting to do anything to the
character that assumes it is in location A (for example, teleport
it to location C) will not inadvertently screw up things. Many
other common commands (particularly get/drop and those to do
with communication) are also location-based.
For these reasons, servers typically partition responsibility for
the virtual world along (virtual) geographic lines. A sub-server
can lock location records in the instantiation database for
extended periods; indeed, if the system is programmed
correctly, it doesn’t have to lock them at all—it has implicit
control by mere virtue of the fact that none of the other subservers do.
To summarize the argument so far: We want to spread the
players fairly evenly across sub-servers, but the obvious way
would introduce too many overheads on database access; a far
more efficient way to do it is to partition by geographical
location. The question is: Would using this partitioning model
give us load balancing?
The answer is that yes, it would. How, exactly, depends on the
virtual world.
25 It’s over 50% for MUD2; graphical virtual worlds have an even higher
figure—90% or more—because players have to take more steps to get
anywhere. This is changing with the arrival of click interfaces, in which you
click where you want to go rather than point where you want to go.
136 Chapter 2
There are essentially two approaches: fixed load balancing and
dynamic load balancing. The former, exemplified by EverQuest,
assigns a predefined geographical location (a zone) to one subserver26; the latter, exemplified by Asheron’s Call, moves
responsibility for geographical locations between sub-servers.
Fixed load balancing:
• Is easier to implement.
• Can partition the instantiation database and keep it local to
the sub-server, for greater efficiency.
• Allows the client to figure out in advance what texture maps
will be needed and preload them into graphics card memory.
Dynamic load balancing:
• Has seamless terrain (you can see to the horizon27).
• Has boundaries that are not physical (monsters chasing
you don’t get stuck at zone edges).
• Balances the load better.
What does all this mean for design?
It’s an example of where technology imposes constraints. For
fixed load balancing, zones can be created with greater
individuality: The ‘physical’ barriers between them allow for
radical change. Players can cross from one to another and expect
26 It should be pointed out that sub-servers can handle more than one zone at
once.
27 Invisible cross-server boundaries are also possible with tessellated worlds
such as Ultima Online that have fixed load balancing. However, odd things
may happen when interactions occur over server boundaries (for example,
shooting arrows across them). In Asheron’s Call, which has dynamic load
balancing, characters that interact are moved to the same server so as to
reduce inter-server communication confusion.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 137
to see something different on the other side. For a seamless
system, sudden changes have to make more sense or they’ll
seem out of place.
The fact that content such as monsters can’t cross zone
boundaries means that players will use different tactics in such
a world than they would in one where there was always the
possibility that a creature they had royally annoyed could
pursue them relentlessly.
Victorian London’s police forces couldn’t (legally) cross precinct
boundaries: Jack the Ripper would commit a murder in one
police district and then run into another where the police were
not allowed to follow; if they could have followed, he would have
had to rethink his getaway strategy.
Zoned worlds have something of a problem with fiash crowds
(people appearing instantly in the same vicinity in response to
interesting news; the term comes from a 1973 Larry Niven short
story28). Most of the time, each sub-server will be handling
similar numbers of players. However, sometimes something
happens that causes everyone to want to be in the same general
locale29. Maybe it’s a rare spawning of an impressive dragon, or
a social event such as a wedding or guild rally. Whatever, all of a
sudden more people want access to a server than it can handle.
The designer has to decide what to do when this happens. Do
they simply show a “zone full” message if people try to enter it?
Do they let them in and leave Customer Service to handle the
resulting complaints about lag? Do they organize the virtual
28 Larry Niven, Flash Crowd. Larry Niven, The Flight of the Horse. New York,
Ballantine, 1973.
29 If this is very focused, the same problem can afflict seamless worlds, too.
It’s rarer than for zoned worlds, but because of this it can be harder to handle
when it does happen.
138 Chapter 2
world such that it would be counter to its fiction for everyone to
want to be in the same zone?
Dark Age of Camelot partitions its player base into three
“realms.” Members of one realm can’t enter territory belonging
to members of another realm. They can enter a no-man’s land
between two realms, however, which is where realm versus
realm combat takes place. The upshot of this is that unless there
is a serious skewing of the DAoC player base, only a third of the
players online will usually be present in any one realm. That’s
excellent for load balancing. What’s more, realms are
aggregations of zones, they’re not zones in themselves. Each
realm is made up of 13 outdoor zones (64K by 64K squares) plus
five dungeons plus one city. There’s no reason why a sub-server
has to handle zones from only one realm; if (for some reason)
75% of the players are all in one realm, the sub-servers handling
that realm will automatically have less load from the other
(sparser) realms they’re controlling.
Players of EQ notice how the sub-servers take responsibility for
zones, but players of DAoC don’t. Why not? Because of the latter
game’s world design.
Other Things Happen
Although players are the main source of the load on virtual
worlds’ supporting hardware, they are not the only one. Things
can happen whether or not players are present. Some of it is
mechanistic: The virtual world’s sun rises and sets, its weather
comes and goes, all irrespective of whether there are players
around. For a highly detailed world, this could amount to
considerable work (a breeze rustles individual leaves on a tree,
one of which falls off to land in a stream that carries it lazily to a
river and thence to the sea). Virtual worlds of this complexity
are some way off at the moment, though.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 139
What’s more of an issue is the presence in the virtual world of
virtual creatures. These are commonly known as mobiles30 (mobs
for short), and they represent the monsters and non-player
characters that inhabit the virtual world. They are discussed in
more detail in Chapter 4, “World Design,” but what concerns us
about them right now is that they need to behave in a believable
manner. This requires artificial intelligence techniques, which
gobble up computational resources like nothing else. Even
simple path-finding is an insatiable consumer of CPU cycles. It
would be great to have a virtual city with 100,000 virtual
inhabitants, each making real-time decisions as to how to spend
their virtual lives. We may have to wait some time before we get
this, though.
If a designer wants more mobiles in the virtual world than the
servers can handle, they have to offer solutions for managing
these mobiles. The classic answer is to suspend processing of
those mobiles whose actions would not be witnessed directly by
players. What causes AI load is not the number of mobiles on a
sub-server, but the number that are active at any one time.
Consider a group of goblins in a village. With no players in the
vicinity, there’s no point in having them do anything. Sure, a
sub-server can move them around a bit when it’s not unduly
loaded, but players get priority. Only when a group of
adventurers shows up is it time to activate the goblins so they
can behave intelligently and give the players a run for their
money. When the players leave, the dead goblins can respawn
and wait for the next batch of adventurers.
30 From MUD1, “mobile objects.” I called them that because creatures moving
in a controlled but unpredictable way are like the kind of “mobiles” that hang
from ceilings. Well, I was in kind of a hurry….
140 Chapter 2
Designers who want more mobiles than the programmers tell
them they can have might be tempted to use this proximity
activation approach. They have to realize, though, that every
decision they make has consequences.
In this particular case, the consequences are on causality. If a
tree falls in a desert, does it make a noise? Using proximity
activation, it would never fall in the first place.
Consider a second goblin raiding party. It emerges from its
camp, kills some villagers’ sheep, and then returns home with
the spoils. The villagers get angry and offer to pay players to kill
the goblins.
It’s an evening’s quest.
It’s an evening’s quest that would never happen if the goblins
stayed in their camp until a player happened upon them.
Yes, of course, plenty of ways around this instantly present
themselves, but that’s not the point: What’s important is that
the designer has to recognize that there may be a problem in
the first place. Would your proposed solutions to the problem
come with problems of their own? Would you have thought
about that if I hadn’t asked?
Virtual world design is about consequences.
The Client/Server Model
The server embodies the virtual world; the client translates it
into a form the player can comprehend. Because the client is the
player’s window on the virtual world, designers have a lot to say
about its look and feel. Much of this is a matter of taste and
convention, though, and will therefore not be discussed here.
Clearly, it does make a difference if your proposed spell-casting
How to Make Virtual Worlds 141
system is too complicated to be implemented for mouse and
keyboard31, but if this kind of thing isn’t obvious to you, then
you’ve no business being a designer anyway.
There are, however, engineering considerations specific to the
implementation of virtual worlds that impact directly on the
virtual world itself. These are unavoidable, and designers must
be aware of them.
To illustrate: In theory, the same virtual world could be
presented using different skins, so whereas one player might see
a defense robot discharging an energy weapon, another might
see a wizard wielding a wand. This is something that players
would find novel, but it presents a major challenge to designers.
Few genres map onto each other to this extent, so compromises
would have to be made.
As it happens, this particular example is a red herring because
the amount of artwork necessary to support just one, let alone
two, genre is considerable. The benefits aren’t worth the cost.
Textual worlds are easier to reskin than graphical ones in this
respect, of course, but have less reason to want to do it32. In
practice, using skins for graphical clients means altering the
look and layout of the client’s interface, not the look of what it
displays of the virtual world. Hanging different curtains doesn’t
change the view through the window.
It turns out that there are only two issues relating to the
client/server relationship that have concrete effects on the
31 Well, only for spell-casters. There’s no theoretical reason why different
character classes can’t have interfaces customized for what they spend most
of their time doing.
32 Translation schemes for moving functionally equivalent objects between
differently themed parts of a virtual world (and even between virtual worlds)
do exist, however.
142 Chapter 2
design of virtual worlds, but both of them are very important:
synchronization and security.
Synchronization
It takes time for information to travel between the client and
the server. It takes time for the server to execute commands.
During this time, the client has to maintain its display of the
virtual world. What it shows may not, therefore, be a true
representation of what the server defines to be the current
world state: The two aren’t synchronized. In the real world, the
sun might have spontaneously exploded 19 seconds ago, but
you’re not going to find out for another eight minutes. In a
virtual world, someone may have quit four seconds before you
loosed an arrow at him.
Lag due to server load can be addressed by buying in faster
hardware and by optimizing code. There’s little that can be done
about lag due to communications, though.
Even with a perfect connection, the speed of light through
glass33 is such that someone in Sydney playing in a virtual world
with servers in San Diego34 would experience a delay of over
0.06 seconds in each direction with a direct cable connection.
The fact that their communication has to go through routers
and isn’t in a straight line brings it up to more like a third of a
second. Throw in an analogue modem and you can add another
third of a second. Lag happens.
Designers have to account for this by making nothing too timesensitive. In a regular computer game, players can be expected
to make timed runs through windmill sails or giant steam
pistons or pendulum scythes, but in a virtual world there’s no
guarantee that when the player sees a gap on their client the
33 Approximately 197,000 kilometers per second.
34 Approximately 12,083 kilometers from Sydney at sea level.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 143
server is actually implementing one. For this reason, players can
never be called on to make reflex actions (although their
characters can be), which means virtual worlds have little or no
twitch.
Timed actions are possible, but the window for success needs to
be at least four seconds in duration or some players are going to
miss it while believing they hit it. Nevertheless, improvements
in Internet reliability have led to attempts to bring the kind of
response times common in first-person shooters to virtual
worlds: Planetside35 is the best-known pioneer.
Precise timing issues aside, virtual worlds are fairly robust in
the face of lag. The exact moment that a player initiates an
action is rarely important; when players agree to do something
“at the same time,” they know it’s a fuzzy concept. As long as
designers avoid doing anything deliberately that requires speed,
there’s rarely a problem.
Although most of the lag that players endure is fairly constant
across a connection, not all of it is. Sometimes, lag can be
intermittent: Things can work fine then suddenly halt for no
apparent reason. This kind of lag is actually due to bandwidth
issues that cause a service provider to invoke some kind of
resource allocation scheme. It doesn’t matter how good your
broadband connection is, if your ISP isn’t sending you the
packets, then you’re not going to see them. This kind of lag can
last several seconds, whereupon all the packets that are buffered
up are dispatched at once and service resumes as normal.
Clients expect regular packets of data from the server to update
their local state. Most of the time, these arrive in a timely
manner. However, it only takes someone using the same router
35 http://planetside.station.sony.com/
144 Chapter 2
as you to start downloading copious quantities of pornography
and packets will inevitably be delayed. What does the client do
in such circumstances?
The easiest solution is to do nothing. Just sit and wait until
packets arrive, then update them in sequence. The problem with
this is that the virtual world effectively freezes for the player
until the updates arrive. The player can try to do things, but
gets no response until the packets start flowing again. This isn’t
always a problem in textual worlds, but it looks very disturbing
in graphical ones.
Most graphical clients therefore use a predictive model,
whereby they continue moving objects along whatever course
they were taking the last time information was available. If a
character is running east, the chances are that when an update
packet finally arrives it will still have the client running east, so
the screen will be right without ever having frozen. Predictive
models work well when their predictions are correct, which
(fortunately) is most of the time. However, there are problems
when they’re wrong. If the character who was running east had
stopped and turned north, there could be a serious discrepancy
between their actual position and the position the delayed client
is displaying them at.
To correct failed predictions, there are two approaches. The
traditional way is to use the new information and just forget
about the predictions. This results in an effect called warping,
which originated in Air Warrior. Players would be on the tail of
an enemy plane when suddenly it would disappear from their
sights to rematerialize instantly a short distance away like it
had made a hyperspace jump. Players even found ways to
induce it, so they could plan the reappearance to gain a
tactically superior position.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 145
More modern clients apply gradual translations to the displayed
position of an object so that it moves to its correct position
smoothly (if a little more slowly and still looking highly
suspicious).
For designers, this means that not only can’t they use relative
time (in three seconds) but they can’t use relative space (dead
ahead) either. The client might think a particular co-ordinate is
slightly to the left of the player whereas the server knows it’s
slightly to the right. Commands that need co-ordinates
therefore have to use absolute ones rather than relative ones.
Again, when designers are aware of the problem and don’t call
for players to follow complex instructions in mazes or anything,
virtual worlds are usually sturdy enough to cope; a little error in
absolute positioning is fine. They do have to be aware first,
though.
There is a special case, however, in that sometimes players want
to do things to other players at a distance, for example, shoot an
arrow at them. In this situation, not only might the archer’s
position be at odds with the server’s definitive version, but so
might the target’s. The client knows that the player wants to
shoot an arrow at a character, but doesn’t know for sure that
character’s co-ordinates. The designer must decide whether the
command is “shoot at a target” or “shoot at a location” (which
hopefully contains the target). If the arrow has a timed flight
(and if it’s modeling a real arrow it certainly ought to), the
potential for error increases even more.
Bleah!
Graphical virtual worlds are presented as being continuous.
Although characters might actually occupy integral coordinates, they are animated such that they move smoothly
between them, thereby giving the impression that they at times
occupy the spaces “between” the co-ordinates.
146 Chapter 2
Textual worlds can be continuous too, but they are usually
contiguous. Locations can represent an area rather than a point,
and several characters can occupy such locations36 without
causing an anomaly. Restricting horizontal movement to eight
compass points means that using relative direction in such
virtual worlds is a definite possibility. True to form, there are
textual worlds that allow players to use both absolute (north,
northeast, east, and so on) and relative (forward, ahead right,
right, and so on) directions for movement, with the room
description format (absolute or relative) also under player
control. Graphical games can take relative co-ordinates from a
client, but they have to transmit them as absolute ones.
A common mistake among inexperienced client authors is to
take all this with a grain of salt. So what if the client and server
have slightly different ideas as to what is where pointing in
whatever direction? There isn’t going to be that much
divergence. Okay, so maybe occasionally you see someone run
through a solid windmill sail because there is a gap on their
client, but that’s hardly a show-stopper. Let the client decide if
an arrow hits, rather than putting the burden on the server.
There might be a few hits that should be misses and misses that
should be hits, but it’ll all even out over time.
This brings us neatly to the issue of security.
Security
Your client software will be hacked. For some virtual worlds
(such as those with no game aspect to them), this won’t
necessarily matter. For the rest, it matters a great deal.
36 Which are called rooms.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 147
At the very least, it means that all packets sent from the client
to the server have to be checked to see if they make sense.
Error-correction at the hardware and transport layers should
ensure that what arrives at the server is what was sent by the
client, so why waste time checking for nonsense that isn’t going
to come? Well, the fact is that the server may not be talking to a
bona fide client. It could be talking to a piece of code a player has
written to masquerade as a client or to insert data into the
client’s packet stream. If the server receives nonsense but has
no way of handling it, what happens then? Has someone
acquired an ability to crash the server?
That’s if it’s even your server. Sometimes, groups of players will
write their own server and persuade clients to speak to that
instead. They can then design and play their own world in
preference to yours—and all for free37!
Virtual world programmers don’t have to make life easy for
hackers—they can use encryption, own the screen, make very
infrequent identity checks that packet-sniffing software may
miss—but eventually their code will be reverse-engineered and
people will figure out what’s going on. Then they’ll change it38
.
Important: Absolutely no decisions with regard to what
happens in a virtual world can be delegated to a client. No
decisions. That’s no decisions.
Air Warrior’s first client performed the necessary calculations to
determine if a shot hit or missed. It was considered unfair for
37 Examples include EQemu (http://www.eqemu.net/) and EthernalQuest
(http://www. ethernalquest.com) for EverQuest, and Sphere
(http://www.sphereserver.com/), UOX (http://www.uox3dev.net/) and Epsilon
(http://www.epsilon.escend.net/) for Ultima Online. See The Smithys Anvil
(http://www.smithysanvil.com/) for more.
38 This is what developers mean by the term arms race.
148 Chapter 2
players to line up their sights exactly on a target, pull the
trigger, but miss because their client was showing the target to
be somewhere the server didn’t think it was. All very laudable,
until someone wrote a hack for the client such that whenever
you fired, it sent a packet claiming you’d hit whichever plane
was closest to your sights—irrespective of whether it was
actually in them. Kesmai had to bring out a patch to fix it.
Programmers should never put world-critical code in the client.
If they do, it can mean major, big-time fraud. Designers only
have to worry about this if they have to come up with a strategy
for repairing the damage should it go undetected for too long
(for example, groups of players giving themselves money and
spending it in inflation-causing amounts).
Designers do have to worry about things such as automated
play. Anything that requires similar actions to be performed
repeatedly is usually easy to automate—it doesn’t even need a
client hack in many cases, as there are off-the-shelf tools that
will do it. Ultima Online’s craft system was so boring that
players were overjoyed when they discovered macro software
intended for typists that enabled them to save their index
fingers from repetitive stress injury. Computers can generally
issue commands faster than players, too: Someone wrote their
own client for MUD1 that stuffed commands down the line so
quickly that 30 seconds after having started play, the automated
character would be standing with arms full of vicious weapons
and other useful kit, while everyone else was still pretty well
empty-handed.
Designers should therefore avoid calling for anything that
involves doing something again and again and again with no
respite (and that can include movement). If you really want an
action to take a lot of time, let characters do it as a background
task while their players are offline. If speed is occasionally
important (for example, for dramatic reasons), insist that the
How to Make Virtual Worlds 149
server programmers institute delays between processing the
commands from any one player39. If some level of searching or
exploration is required (for example, for a puzzle), put in moving
obstacles or traps so a program can’t easily find a solution using
a brute-force method.
People usually want to automate tasks that are tedious. If you
design something that you think many players might like to
automate, consider the possibility that it could be intrinsically
uninteresting. For example, players will come to understand a
virtual world far better if they make their own maps, so a
designer might want to encourage them to do so. However, the
actual mechanics of mapping are so mind-numbing that there
are auto-mapping programs around (for textual worlds) that try
every exit from every room until they have produced a complete
map that can then go on a web site. If you were hoping to
stimulate a climate of exploration by holding back on embedded
mapping tools in the client, it didn’t work.
There are other ways in which wily players can subvert a client
to put themselves at an advantage. Consider the case of a
character executing a 360° turn. The client must be in close,
rapid contact with the server to ensure that the necessary
information is at hand to display the world as the sweep
progresses. If it weren’t, then the player could be looking at a
half-blank screen or seeing characters pop up in the middle of
the view that weren’t there an instant earlier. However, as was
pointed out earlier, the client can’t usually rely on a super-fast
connection to the server.
39 Actually it’s more fashionable not to enforce delays, but have the server—
or even other clients—perform spot checks to see if someone is cheating.
Needless to say, if clients get to report who is cheating, sooner or later they’ll
be hacked so as to accuse innocent players of doing it.
150 Chapter 2
To solve this problem, the EverQuest server was configured to
send the client more information than it strictly needed; if a
player wanted to turn, then the positions of nearby objects
would already be known and could be displayed without lag
effects. To this end, the client was told the locations of all
objects and players in the vicinity—not just those that
character could “see”—along with other handy tidbits, such as
what they were carrying and how many hit points they had. The
geography also was kept permanently available on the player’s
PC.
This was an efficient approach, in that anyone could rotate or
otherwise change the camera angle with impunity without
suffering staggered images. However, a number of players soon
realized that if the information was present, it could be
displayed whether or not it was in actual use. They wrote
programs to give radar-like readouts of everyone and
everything in the neighborhood. No longer did mobiles attack
them from behind; no longer did they need to guess which were
carrying loot. One such program, ShowEQ, was so useful a tool
that Verant felt compelled to ban its use (leading to one of its
many public relations disasters40).
It doesn’t even have to be the client that’s hacked. Ultima Online
used the PC graphics card to control brightness, which meant
that opportunistic players could override the client (by turning
up the gamma correction) to get full daylight when they were
supposed to be in total darkness. Great for ambushes!
If at all possible, designers should be adamant that no items of
data are sent to the client that convey any information beyond
40 Verant changed the end user license agreement to give them the right to
search your home PC for programs that in their view could interfere with the
proper running of EverQuest. The ensuing full-scale revolt helped them to
reconsider.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 151
what the player’s character is entitled to know. Client
programming being the inexact science that it is, however,
chances are some additional information will have to be sent in
advance, even if it’s only texture maps on a CD-ROM. Designers
should be appraised of this in advance, so they can adjust their
designs accordingly. If you know that players are going to figure
out where all nearby objects are anyway, give that information
to them officially and be sure it’s never of much use. Have new
mobiles that teleport in from nowhere, if you want to keep them
on their toes.
Okay, so, your programmers assure you that nothing is in the
client that should be in the server, except for a few elements
that you can design around. That’s the security issue sorted,
then!
Aw, you know it isn’t. Your design itself could have security
problems.
For example, suppose (having decided that fixed prices are a bad
idea) you make your economy determine the price of goods
based on local supply and demand. Suppose also that it allows
people to buy and sell in bulk at the price for a single item.
Normally, this wouldn’t be a problem: If there are 300 swords
for sale, it doesn’t matter whether you buy one at 20 UOC41 or
10 at 20 UOC each. The price will rise the fewer swords are left,
which is what you want—having bought 10 swords, the new
price might be 22 UOC. You’d make the buy-back price be much
lower than the sale price, so that anyone trying to sell back 10
swords they just bought for 200 UOC would receive maybe only
110 UOC for them instead of 220 UOC.
So far, so good.
41 Units of Currency (UOC).
152 Chapter 2
What happens, though, for high-cost, low-production items?
Maybe the local diamond mine unearths only five diamonds a
week. When all five are available, the price at the diamond mart
is 1,000 UOC; if only one is available, the price soars to 4,000
UOC. If none are available, the supply is exhausted. In that
situation, how much could a single diamond be sold back to the
diamond mart for? Even with a 50% mark-down on the
purchase price, it would still be at least 2,000 UOC. So, if
someone were to buy all five diamonds at once for 1,000 UOC
each, then sell them back all at once for 2,000 UOC each, they’d
make 5,000 UOC each transaction. Your design has given them
an engine for generating however much money they like! Augh!
When something is allowed by the virtual world but the
designers wished it wasn’t, it’s known as an exploit. Exploits—
design bugs—can ruin a virtual world42 overnight.
Exploits aside, there are plenty of ways that players can subvert
a designer’s well-meaning intentions. Identity theft—
pretending to be someone else in real life—is fairly easy but is
hardly the responsibility of the designer43. Character theft—
pretending to be someone else’s character in a virtual world—
should not be easy, because it is the responsibility of the
designer. In particular, if two players can use the same name for
their characters then it’s partly the designer’s fault if one of
42 They can, of course, occur in any kind of simulation software, they’re just
at their worst in virtual worlds. I found an exploit similar to the diamond
example in a single-player trading game (Ascaron’s The Patrician) that finally
allowed me to beat it after five years of trying. They took it out for The
Patrician II.
43 In 2000, I spent several months building a reputation in EverQuest despite
not having played the game at any point during that period. Someone made
out they were me, and other people believed them.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 153
them subsequently successfully pretends to be the other. This
“name problem” is discussed in some depth in Chapter 3.
So, your design will have bugs. Players will find these and wring
every advantage from them that they can. Even if they report
them immediately, they’ll feel you owe them for their honesty.
So what do you do?
You can’t prevent exploits, but you can take steps to minimize
their number and impact. Detection and recovery are of critical
importance. If possible, log everything. In MUD2, players would
regularly complain that line noise44 had severed their
connection to the game and led to their character’s demise.
Instituting a “log everything” policy (player input/output
transcripts and all server decisions) solved the problem at a
stroke—90% of the time, players were exposed as having been
active right up until the moment the dragon incinerated them
or the wolf bit off their head or whatever, and therefore their
impassioned pleas for resurrection amounted to cheating.
This degree of logging is not always possible for virtual worlds
that use a lot of bandwidth, for example, graphical game worlds.
There are two approaches to it, but neither is particularly
satisfactory: store events (from which exact circumstances can
be reconstituted) or store client communications (which gives
the player’s actual viewpoint). Both of these create huge
quantities of hard-to-search data. Customer service
administrators may be able to snoop45 on players as situations
unfold, which can partially alleviate the problem, but if they
arrive at a scene too late then the only alternative to logs is the
presence of impartial witnesses (like there’ll be many of those).
44 In the old days, modems did not have hardware error-correction. A crackly
phone line meant crackly data.
154 Chapter 2
Detecting possible bugs and exploits is important, but it isn’t
itself enough. When it transpires that something really has gone
unfortunately wrong, the ability to correct the consequences of
it should absolutely always be available (even if it means a
wholesale reinstallation of the character database from a timed
back-up). An incomplete ability to discover when things are
going awry is inconvenient; an incomplete ability to recover
damaged data is incompetent46
.
Part of the satisfaction of virtual world design lies in seeing
your creation evolving, with things occurring within it that you
hadn’t anticipated but which make perfect sense. One of the less
fortunate consequences, though, is that some of what happens
you’ll almost certainly wish hadn’t, and will have to fix. The
more contingency plans you have in place, the better, but you’ll
never be able to cover everything.
Still, if you want the unpredictable, you can’t complain when
you get it.
Theory and Practice
How virtual worlds ought to be put together and how they are
put together are two different things. You can spend 30 hours in
a classroom learning how to drive a car, but fifteen minutes at
the wheel is going to teach you a whole lot more.
At times, the practice is more useful than the theory.
46 And if players realize you don’t have accurate snapshots of events, that’s
when the problems really begin.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 155
This section discusses some of the things that look like they
should be important, but aren’t, along with those that look like
they shouldn’t be important, but are. It’s a bit of a mixed bag,
but is fairly representative of the kind of hidden depth (or lack
of same) that only becomes apparent when you actually develop
a virtual world. There are plenty more, but I’ll leave them for
you to discover them for yourself; as I said, you’ll learn more by
doing than by reading about it.
Modes
When you start up your web browser, what page does it point
at? Surprisingly, for most people the answer is “whatever my
ISP set it to when I installed its software.” Their first view of the
World Wide Web every morning is what their ISP shows them.
Virtual worlds have many ways to let players customize their
experiences. In a textual world, for example, some people want
full room descriptions the whole time, and some want short
ones the whole time. There are commands that let players
choose for themselves which of these to go with. However, one
option will be the default, and that’s the one that newbies will
use. In MUD1, the first time you entered a room you saw its full
description, and on later visits you saw the short version. This
helped stop newbies from getting lost. Later, they would use
exclusively verbose descriptions when making accurate maps
and exclusively brief descriptions at all other times, but later is
later. When they started, they got the default, and the default
said, “Explore!”
Defaults set the tone of virtual worlds, because all newbies play
under them. As they become more experienced, they’ll
inevitably customize some of the settings; most options,
however, will stay at the default. Thus, the designer’s choice of
defaults can have long-term influences on how a virtual world is
perceived. Defaults are more important than they look.
156 Chapter 2
To illustrate this, let’s take a look at modes, because in a sense
they establish what the world is “about.”
All virtual worlds assume a hardware device for entering
freeform data; it’s usually a keyboard. The player types some
text, hits return, and—what? It depends on the current mode.
In a textual world, the line is usually interpreted as a command.
open door
north
get book
This would be command mode.
In a graphical world, the line is usually interpreted as speech.
Follow me!
What happened? You were supposed to be
following!
Hey! That’s mine!
This would be conversation mode. Chat rooms usually default to
conversation mode, too.
So where’s the hidden depth here? It’s not like you can’t act in
conversation mode or speak in command mode.
When a newbie enters a world for which the default is command
mode, the message that the world is sending them is that this is
a place where you can do things: It emphasizes freedom to act
on the world. If the default is conversation mode, the message is
this is a place where you can communicate: It emphasizes
freedom to interact with other players. You might expect,
therefore, that players of textual worlds do more and players of
graphical worlds say more.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 157
Actually, for graphical virtual worlds the default is to use the
less-than-freeform mouse most of the time, forcing a greater
distinction between limited doing and unlimited saying. If you
want to talk or attempt anything complicated, you have to stop
playing to do so. This is sound advice for crowd control, but
somewhat dissatisfying for the individuals in the crowd so
controlled.
The designer sets the default mode. The default mode shapes
the style of play. The designer can therefore encourage or
discourage a style of play by changing the default mode. Thus, a
simple, almost throwaway design decision can have a long-term
influence on a virtual world’s ethos.
Note that although the main choice is between command mode
and conversation mode, there are other modes used in virtual
worlds. The convention has evolved that the first character in a
line is used to switch modes for the remainder of that line.
There will often be an option to turn a mode on/off until further
notice, but no standard syntax for this has yet emerged.
Table 2.1 shows the most common modes in use, along with the
(sometimes conflicting) options for leading characters used to
switch them on.
Table 2.1 Common Modes
Mode Leading
Characters
Explanation
Command > / . Input is a direct command to
the server.
Conversation ‘ “ ` Input is a parameter to the say
command.
Coding @ Input is a scripting language
command.
158 Chapter 2
Acting ; : Input is a parameter to the
pose/act/emote command.
Help ? Input is a parameter to the
help command.
Switch / \ $ Input is for the client or frontend, rather than the server.
Virtual Reality
Read a selection of Science Fiction stories about virtual worlds,
and you’ll soon discover that the following are inevitabilities:
• True intelligence will emerge from the hideously
complex machinations performed by the virtual world
engine, with unnerving consequences for human
morality.
• Unscrupulous people will transfer their consciousnesses
into hardware in order to live forever, muahahaha.
• Virtual worlds will be experienced through virtual reality
interfaces so good that the virtual will be
indistinguishable from the real.
The first two of these are not of immediate interest to the
designers of virtual worlds, being somewhat distant prospects
at the moment. Virtual reality (VR), however, while as yet
nowhere near the quality envisaged in speculative novels, is far
more accessible. Why not create a virtual world with a virtual
reality interface? It would attract media attention, if nothing
else.
For a virtual world with a closed user base, a VR interface is
indeed a reasonable proposition. A small academic research
community or a large industrial or military training
establishment would be able to experiment with the idea and
get fruitful, worthwhile results.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 159
For an open user base, though, VR isn’t yet an option. It’s simply
not value-added enough for developers at the moment, that is,
the costs of putting it in outweigh the benefits. Until the
technology improves47 and the installed base reaches some
critical mass (whether because of computer games, 3D movies,
3D video cameras, or something else), VR would be available to
but a few, lucky or wealthy players.
There is an argument, though, that VR access to a major virtual
world could itself be enough of a draw that people would be
willing to acquire the necessary hardware to play. Of course, for
this to happen VR would have to bring something quite special
to the virtual world experience.
So what would that be? It depends on the set-up, of course, but
in the first instance the chances are that a basic VR kit would
mean full-vision headsets with surround sound and orientation
detection, plus gloves incorporating movement sensors and
some degree of positive tactile feedback. Using such an
interface, the virtual world could:
• Let you see it in 3D48
• Let you hear it in 3D
• Tell in what direction you’re looking
• Tell what your hand is doing
• Deliver sensation to your fingers
• Accept speech input
47 Minimally, it mustn’t induce blinding headaches in its users.
48 Stereoscopically. As pointed out in Chapter 1, for virtual worlds the term
“3D graphics” usually means that the graphics are displaying something that
is 3D, not that the image so displayed is itself 3D. A VR headset could be
expected to present separate images to each eye, giving a much truer sense
of 3D than does a flat plane.
160 Chapter 2
What advantages would accessing a virtual world through such
a VR interface confer over the traditional mouse and/or
keyboard approach?
There’s some convenience in being able to control what you see
and do by means of head and hand movements, countered only
by the slight inconvenience in having to sport the equipment
needed to support it. Nevertheless, it’s unlikely that a player
using a keyboard and mouse would be at a serious disadvantage
compared with someone kitted out in the modest VR set-up
described here, at least in terms of their ability to control their
character in a virtual world.
Speech as an input form seems, at first glance, to be an
attractive proposition. It wouldn’t be all that great in command
mode, because speech recognition software still has a long way
to go before it could be of genuine utility. In conversation mode,
though, it would be much more effective—but only if it could be
completely disguised. Again, although voices can easily be
distorted using today’s technology, it’s likely to be some time
before they can be altered so well that they don’t sound altered.
But why is some form of disguise necessary anyway?
One of the main attractions of virtual worlds is the ability to be
whoever you want to be; anything in the virtual world that
anchors you to who you are in the real world is a disincentive.
When you hear an elf in the middle of a sylvan wood speaking a
New York accent, or a mighty-thewed, bare-chested barbarian
who sounds like a schoolmarm, sadly reality is intruding a little
too much. If voices aren’t disguised, players aren’t disguised,
and then the virtual world is just another aspect of the real one.
3D vision and sound, and to some extent tactile feedback, are
the real gold for VR. They make the virtual world more
persuasive, which helps players immerse themselves in their
(virtual) surroundings. The change won’t be to everyone’s
How to Make Virtual Worlds 161
taste—some people are always going to prefer text, for example,
on account of how it speaks to the imagination rather than to
the senses—but it’ll help anyone who gets on well with
graphics49. That said, flat images are already quite capable of
immersing players into a virtual world, and they don’t have to
cut off great swathes of the real world to do it. Players like being
immersed in virtual worlds, and will happily ignore negative
cues if they get sufficient positive ones that they can will
themselves to suspend their disbelief. You don’t have to trick
them into it; they’ll go for it anyway. Giving them more
‘realistic’ visual and auditory stimulation will provide additional
signals, but are they mere luxury? Designers can and do
encourage immersion by many other means50
.
So, would VR merely amount to a marketing ploy to attract
newbies?
Cynics might suggest that this is all that adding graphics to
virtual worlds ever did, but even they would have to concede
that it worked. The allegation is unfair anyway, in that a
graphical interface to a virtual world does actually make a
tangible difference. If, for example, in a textual virtual world you
happened on a gathering of 50 characters, you’d have to read 50
names to see if there was anyone there with whom you wanted
a chat. Spotting a friend from among 50 faces in a graphical
virtual world is far, far quicker51. Would a VR interface add some
49 Well, almost anyone. If you only have sight in one eye, 3D visual effects
aren’t going to impress you. Similarly, if (like me) you can’t tell where sounds
are coming from, expensive 3D auditory set pieces are going to pass
unnoticed.
50 Chapter 3 features an in-depth discussion of the concept of immersion in
virtual worlds.
51 I should point out that long-term players of textual worlds can acquire the
ability to do something similar— glance at a list of names and pick out a
friend without having to read (or even speed-read) anything. It’s a skill that
comes only with time, however, whereas face-recognition is something
162 Chapter 2
genuinely useful feature that flat graphics and two-point stereo
don’t?
Frankly, probably not. Unless the virtual world has very
counter-intuitive physics (for example, the further away an
object is, the bigger it appears), you’re not going to learn much
more about it from experiencing it in 3D than you can already
figure out from the perspective and motion conventions of 2D.
Unless…
Unless designers can exploit the extra capabilities that a VR
interface imparts. Instead of clicking where you want your
arrow to land, you raise and point your bow, then release the
string—with true depth to your vision, you can now judge
trajectories. Instead of running to attack the lightly armed man,
you flee—you can now see he’s a giant. Instead of walking in the
gaps between well-spaced trees, you push through dense
forest—the tree trunks no longer merge to look like fences
when they’re close together. VR really does offer new prospects.
Unfortunately, virtual world design is not yet sufficiently
developed to make the best of this. Game designers still have to
make more use of sound as a gameplay element, so it seems
unlikely that virtual world designers will successfully embrace
VR the moment it becomes available. There may be some
centerpieces that show off the technology, but that’s likely to be
all. When you catch a movie on TV and notice that people seem
to be pointing or throwing things toward the camera a lot,
pretty soon you realize you’re watching an old 3D movie in 2D.
Directors never really came to grips with 3D in movies. Will
humans learn in infancy (if indeed it’s not already hardwired into the brain at
birth). Of course, this point about facial recognition would carry more weight
if people didn’t all choose the same faces and outfits so everyone ends up
relying on the names above characters’ heads anyway.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 163
designers fare better when VR comes to virtual worlds? Or will
it be a case of, “Aww, man, not the guys with pikes again!”?
The theory is good, but the practice may take some time to
measure up to it.
Extensibility
Virtual worlds are designed such that they can be extended over
time.
Why? To add content, to correct imbalances, to allow for more
simultaneous players— there are lots of reasons.
Who extends the world? The live team.
Who created the world? The dev team.
Is the dev team a subset of the live team? At some point, the
answer has to be “no.”
For large-scale, graphical virtual worlds, the answer is usually
“no” immediately, because the live team is a separate entity
from the dev team. Even for small-scale worlds, or those for
which the live team is built from the dev team, the original
designers aren’t going to be around indefinitely. Students who
create virtual worlds eventually leave college; professional
designers who create successful worlds are offered new
opportunities52; people move, their circumstances change:
Ultimately, no one lives forever.
52 It’s quite a different story for professional designers who create
unsuccessful worlds, but the effect is the same: They end up not working on
the project.
164 Chapter 2
The live team may therefore differ in attitude to the dev team53
when it comes to assessing how the virtual world “should”
work. There are many opportunities for divergence:
• The live team may fail to understand aspects of the
design, seeing flaws where there are none.
• The live team may misunderstand the dev team’s
intentions, believing they’re doing the right thing when
they’re not.
• The live team may have a different overall philosophy,
and “correct” the design where it runs counter to this.
• The dev team’s design might fail when exposed to real
players.
• The dev team may have higher quality staff than the live
team (or vice versa), with a consequently better handle on
things.
Because the live team is in control, there is great scope for a
virtual world to shift away from the designers’ original vision
over time. This isn’t necessarily a bad thing— adapting to
circumstances is how systems evolve, after all. Neither, though,
is it necessarily a good thing—survival of the fittest is great
when you’re one of the fittest, but not so great otherwise.
At this level, it’s a classic conflict between theory (what the dev
team wants) and practice (what the live team gets). It’s a little
more complicated than that, though. The live team has to deal
with players, every single one of whom believes they know just
as much about virtual world design (if not more) than anyone in
the live team—and are prepared to argue the point.
The bad news is that players know nothing about virtual world
design. Nothing whatsoever.
53 Indeed, they may differ in attitude to the live team of a few months earlier.
How to Make Virtual Worlds 165
Well, that’s not strictly true. A very small fraction of them do54
,
but these are generally indistinguishable from normal players
except in the benighted eyes of people who actually do know
about virtual world design. Message boards are full of erudite
arguments by players able to put their opinions cogently,
politely, and convincingly. That doesn’t mean they’re right,
though. It’s like listening to a religious discussion between
people of a religion different to your own: They obviously know
exactly what they’re talking about, in great and profound detail,
but from your point of view they’re at least misinformed and at
most completely misguided. Player discussions are frequently
like that: Designers can recognize some truths in what is being
said, but these are so mixed with dogma, rhetoric, and
downright falsehoods that the conclusions they reach are often
bizarre and irrelevant (whenever they reach conclusions at all,
that is).
Yes, I realize I’ve just insulted about three million people, here.
It’s not that most players don’t know about virtual world design,
but that their knowledge is too personal. As mentioned in
Chapter 1, players tend to view all virtual worlds in the context
of the one they “grew up” playing. If a new idea is suggested,
many players will immediately consider how it would fit into
their preferred virtual world, whether or not the virtual world
for which it is intended is remotely similar. If the debate
actually concerns “their” virtual world, they’ll figure out the
short-term repercussions of their own playing style and use
that as a basis to decide whether they’re for or against. They’ll
only refer to long-term effects or other playing styles when
54 Hopefully, a fraction that will increase as more and more players read this
book.
166 Chapter 2
they’re trying to win allies or to convince the live team that they
are responsible people whose opinions should carry weight.
This is because actually playing a virtual world adds a subjective
element to all discussion. Designers have to be objective. If you
can play a virtual world for fun, it’s very hard to be a designer;
every decision you make is related to your own experiences as a
player. Designers can’t play virtual worlds for fun. When I enter
a virtual world, all I see is the machinery, the forces at work, the
interactions—it’s intellectually interesting and can be
artistically exciting, but it isn’t fun. Other designers are the
same: The price you pay for being able to deconstruct a virtual
world is that of being unable not to deconstruct it. Magic isn’t
magic when you know how the trick is done.
That’s why most players aren’t good at design. They still sense
the magic.
Unfortunately for the live team, that’s not quite how the players
themselves see it. Players want improvements made to their
virtual world, and most of the time they are appreciative—even
fanatical—of the live team’s efforts. When they aren’t, though,
oh boy, do they ever let the live team know! The pressure can be
phenomenal. It can reach the stage where it’s more gainful to
implement the change that everyone is screaming for than it is
to answer all the emails they’d send if you continued to hold out.
At this point, the live team often surrenders. Top-down design
gives way to bottom-up experiment.
Whether this fills the original dev team with pride or despair
depends on the extent to which they’d planned for its
occurrence.
Players 167
Chapter 3
Players
The real-life human beings sitting at a computer and accessing
a virtual world are its players. Players are distinct from the
objects within the virtual world over which they exercise
control; these are characters.
The difference between players and characters is absolutely
fundamental to virtual worlds. Characters are conduits that
enable players to act and interact with the world itself and with
other players. Characters exist only within the virtual world; the
decision to enter that world and to remain in that world is
entirely the preserve of players. The aim of designers is to
provide an experience for players, not for characters.
That is the concern of this chapter.
168 Chapter 3
Who Are These People and What
Do They Want?
As mentioned in Chapter 1, “Introduction to Virtual Worlds,” the
demographics of virtual worlds are important for two reasons:
• If you know who likes your virtual world (the actual
demographics), you can use this to decide where to look for
newbies.
• If you know who wants to like your virtual world (the target
demographics), you can change the virtual world so as to
appeal to those people.
Both of these are essentially marketing issues. In the former, the
design group has the upper hand, delivering a product that the
marketers have to sell; in the latter, the marketing group has
the upper hand, selling a product that the designers have to
deliver.
Demographics provide information as to the real-world makeup of your players (or intended players). What you do with that
information is another matter, though. If there are relatively
few men aged 30–45 in your user base, does that mean you
should ignore that demographic (because they don’t want to
play) or pander to it (because you want them to play)?
From the designer’s point of view, demographics mean
generalizations, generalizations mean stereotypes, and
stereotypes mean problems. These problems are four-fold:
• Some stereotypes are over-independent. If you design a
game for boys aged 12–16, that’s all you’ll get.
• Some stereotypes are under-dependent. If you want to
attract heterosexual men aged 18–30 to your virtual world
Players 169
then you should try to pack it full of heterosexual women
aged 18–30.
• Stereotyping is patronizing. There are few slogans more
likely to put women off a computer game than, “Designed by
women, for women”1
.
• Stereotypes force designers to embrace prejudice, whether
or not they want to. All these examples, mild though they
may seem, are offensive to one or another group of
individuals2
.
Demographic information of this nature is not generally helpful
to designers of virtual worlds. Designers need to know what
players want to do in the virtual world—their playing styles,
rather than their socio-economic profiles. Actually, designers
need to know a lot of other things about players, too, as we shall
see later in this chapter; their playing styles, however, are the
most important thing3
, so that’s what we’re looking at first.
Of course, members of a demographic group might share a
particular playing style, but this doesn’t help unless you know
what that style is; besides, not everyone will conform to the
stereotype. If multiple playing styles can co-exist, so can
multiple demographics, in which case actual demographics
become less of an issue. This means that designers can focus on
the practical matter of addressing what players of whatever
background like doing, instead of what they believe players of a
particular background will probably like doing.
1 Especially if it’s written in pink letters.
2 For those blinded by rage, I’d like to make the obvious point that I did not
do this with the intention of offending anyone and do not necessarily hold
any of the views implied myself. See how the mere mention of prejudice gets
a designer worried?
3 This is only because at the moment it’s the only one with a useful, proven,
working theory behind it.
170 Chapter 3
Of course, this is useless unless you have a good categorization
of playing styles.
Playing styles are defined by what players do; what players do
depends on what they consider to be fun. The former can be
divined from a statistical assessment of the demographic
information and the latter from a psychological or sociological
assessment. Unfortunately, the results of this kind of analysis
aren’t always very useful. It’s all well and good knowing that
some players are nurturing, helpful people, that others have
problems with authority, that some like to collect objects, and so
on; these may be valid playing styles, and may even be possible
to address in terms of world design (introduce sick animals,
quests for loners, coins with dates on them).
What such analyses don’t necessarily say is how one playing
style interacts with another. What would be the effect of filling a
game with nurturing types? Or loners? Or collectors?
Categorizations are also more useful if they’re guaranteed to be
complete. Is there an anti-nurturing type? Can an individual be
both a loner and a collector? Can different virtual worlds be
described in terms of their appeal to the various playing styles
that have been categorized?
Players are all different, and they all behave differently.
Nevertheless, there will be general playing styles that they
adopt, and how these interact will have consequences on the
success or otherwise of a virtual world. It would be very useful
for designers if they had a demographic-independent theory of
playing styles that could be used to predict the long-term future
of a virtual world based on a sound categorization strategy.
Armed with this, they could ensure that there were activities
available for all playing styles (or be prepared to accept the
consequences if there weren’t); they could introduce checks and
balances to make certain that if one playing style came to
dominate, the other styles would be compensated so as to keep a
Players 171
healthy balance; they could alter the form or functionality of the
world itself to force it back into equilibrium if circumstances
favored or disfavored one style over another; they could
implement design protocols to guarantee that new additions to
the world are always checked for their overall consequences on
different playing styles.
Yes, I wouldn’t be banging on about this if it weren’t the case
that there is indeed a proven model for player categorization
that has sufficient theoretical underpinnings to allow for a
predictive analysis of individual virtual worlds.
Player Types
For almost two decades, virtual worlds had no theories of
anything. There were theories of other things that were applied
to virtual worlds (as will be discussed in Chapter 6, “It’s Not a
Game, It’s a …”), but no theories of virtual worlds themselves.
This changed in 1996, with the publication of Hearts, Clubs,
Diamonds, Spades: Players Who Suit MUDs4
in the first issue of
the newly founded Journal of MUD Research5
. Its author was
Richard Bartle, that’s me6
; if that puts you off, please skip to the
next section.
Rather than reproduce the entire paper here in full, I’ll instead
focus on its main points. Interested readers who prefer books to
web pages are referred to Bridgette Patrovsky and Jessica
4 http://www.mud.co.uk/richard/hcds.htm
5 http://www.brandeis.edu/pubs/jove. It’s now the Journal of Virtual
Environments.
6 This explains why I get to write this book and you don’t.
172 Chapter 3
Mulligan’s Developing Online Games: An Insider’s Guide7
, which
includes this paper as an appendix.
The Nature of “Fun”
Why do people play virtual worlds?
For non-entertainment worlds, the answer may be “because
they were told to.” If participation is voluntary, though, the
players must expect to get something out of their experience.
This may be practical knowledge useful in the real world—
playing a MOO to learn to program or to learn a foreign
language. For worlds with no pedagogical imperative, though,
why do people play?
Isn’t it obvious? To have fun!
At a superficial level, that answer is fine. When you start looking
at it in detail, though, it starts to break down. Is having your
character killed by a monster fun? Is waiting three hours for a
dragon to spawn that may (but probably won’t) be carrying a
rare item fun? Is spending 40 minutes tromping across a desert
without meeting a single fellow player fun?
Okay, then, perhaps people play because the sum of their
experience is fun. When you finally kill the monster, or the
dragon carries Rod of Bi’Gloot, or you reach the lost oasis, this
balances all the pain you went through to get there. But surely
in the end the rewards lose their luster, whereas the drudgery
never gets any more interesting?
Well maybe people play because, though it might not be very
fun, it’s nevertheless more fun than not playing. People would
7 Bridgette Patrovsky and Jessica Mulligan: Developing Online Games: An
Insider’s Guide. Indianapolis, New Riders Publishing, 2003.
Players 173
have to have very sad lives for this to be the case, though,
wouldn’t they? Unhappily, it’s entirely possible that they do—
not everyone’s real-world existence is an endless whirl of
stimulating social engagements in exotic locations.
Whatever it is that causes a player to come back to a virtual
world time and time again, there must be things happening
that, on the whole, they find enjoyable or personally rewarding.
This is what they call fun. There might not be a lot of it, or there
may be a good deal of it, but it has to be there. Players enter a
virtual world to have fun; other people could have different
ideas about whether it’s fun, but to that player it’s fun. It’s
relative to individuals.
In a virtual world context, the word “fun” therefore has a
slightly more specific meaning than in Standard English. It’s the
supreme emotional state that the player expects to experience
as a result of playing in that world. It’s a somewhat circular
definition: Players play so as to have fun, fun being what it is
they aim to feel when playing.
Perhaps by examining what players actually do in a virtual
world, the notion of what constitutes “fun” for particular
individuals could be broken down more productively?
Player Types
In 1989 and 1990, the senior players of MUD2 got into a debate
lasting several months to answer the question, “What do people
want out of a MUD?” At its conclusion, I undertook an analysis
of their replies, and summarized their ideas of what constituted
“fun” for them as falling into one of four categories:
• Achievers. These people put the game-like aspect of the
virtual world to the fore. They like doing things that
174 Chapter 3
achieve defined8 goals, thereby progressing their
character through the world’s built-in ranking system.
• Socializers. People for whom the greatest reward is
interacting with other people, through the medium of
the virtual world. Some do it as themselves; others roleplay behind a mask.
• Explorers. The ultimate delight for Explorers is increasing
their knowledge about the way the virtual world works.
Their joy is in discovery. They seek out the new.
• Killers. People who want to dominate others. The classic
way is through attacking them or otherwise making life
difficult for them9
, but it also can manifest in less overt
fashion, such as politicking, rumor-mongering,
pedanticism, or guilt-trip maternalism (“No, it’s okay,
you go and enjoy yourself. I’ll just sit here by myself,
waiting for someone to come along, I’ll think of
something to do…”)10
.
These categories seemed correct empirically, but I couldn’t be
sure that they were exhaustive. Perhaps there was another
category that I’d missed? I therefore needed a means of
formalizing the player types such that each of them could be
shown to be emergent from a more robust framework which
was guaranteed to be exhaustive.
I quickly realized that as there were four player types, a twodimensional graph (with four quadrants) would do the job.
However, I needed to find the right axes.
8 Defined by the virtual world, that is, getting points and rising levels.
9
In this context, they’re generally referred to as griefers.
10 The word “killers” is perhaps unfortunate, given the misunderstandings
that arise because of it; “dominators” is a less emotive alternative that some
people prefer, although unfortunately it doesn’t imply a desire to dominate
people (as with achievers, who want to ‘dominate’ the world).
Players 175
I immediately saw that achievers and explorers were more
interested in the game than in the players of the game, whereas
socializers and killers were more focused on the players than
any game aspects. This distinction provided one axis. What,
though, did achievers and either socializers or killers have in
common? Could the same partitioning work for explorers and
either killers or socializers?
I felt confident that achievers and killers were active, in that
they like doing things to other things (the game or its players,
respectively). Explorers and socializers were passive, in that
they liked things being done to them. I wasn’t very happy with
this, however, as it was clear that socializers did like doing
things to other people (talking to them) and explorers did like
doing things to the game (experimenting).
Over the course of the next few years, I refined my ideas. I
relabeled the x-axis players/world instead of players/game,
because only achievers regarded the virtual world primarily as a
game11. I still had trouble with the y-axis, though. It wasn’t until
I wrote the whole theory as a paper and submitted it for peer
review that I got the answer: Alan Schwartz, founding editor of
the Journal of MUD Research, suggested that explorers and
socializers both valued forms of interaction. This was exactly
what I needed to hear, and everything immediately fell into
place.
The resulting Player Interest Graph is shown in Figure 3.1.
11 I also considered real/virtual, but didn’t feel it was accessible enough.
Players/world deal in the manifestations of these concepts, and it is much
easier to get a handle on.
176 Chapter 3
Figure 3.1 Player Interest Graph.
This graph describes players in terms of two (continuous)
dimensions: How much they prefer acting on things as opposed
to interacting with them; how much they prefer to direct their
attentions toward the players or the world in which those
players are present (as characters).
• Achievers have fun acting on the virtual world.
• Explorers have fun interacting with the virtual world.
• Socializers have fun interacting with other players.
• Killers have fun acting on other players.
Although other categorizations are obviously possible (and may
well be superior), the use of opposing criteria for each of the
Players 177
axes in the Player Interest Graph shows that for this particular
approach the categorizations are exhaustive.
As it stands, this graph tells designers quite a bit. If you want to
increase the attraction of your virtual world to achievers, for
example, you should include more content that involves acting
upon the world; if you want to have more socializers, you should
facilitate the capability to interact with other players, and so on.
If you were to constrain the degree to which the world could be
changed (for example by making areas out of bounds to certain
groups of players), then you’d hit achievers and explorers but
not socializers and killers. If you were to increase the capability
to interact (for example by allowing players to keep notes on
anything in the world they right double-click on), then you’d
boost socializers and explorers but not achievers and killers.
It’s possible to do this with other dimensions appropriate either
to particular virtual worlds or virtual worlds in general. For
example, a MUSH might have axes for story-telling/storybuilding versus theory/practice. Someone who likes to teach
other people how to role-play would be in the theory/storytelling quadrant, whereas someone who likes constructing new
content would be in the practice/story-building quadrant.
Designers will use whatever categorizations they find most
useful.
It’s possible to do more with categorizations than merely state
them and demonstrate them to be exhaustive, though. Having
divided a set into four (or more) subsets, the question can be
asked: What dynamics exist between the sub-sets? Are they
independent (an increase in the number of people teaching how
to build would have minimal impact on the number of people
role-playing) or are there causalities (fewer people teaching how
to build eventually leads to fewer builders)?
This is where it gets interesting.
178 Chapter 3
Dynamics
In the wild, what effect does increasing the number of
wildebeests at a watering hole have on the number of lions in
the vicinity? Lions eat wildebeests, so the more wildebeests
there are, the greater the number of lions that will turn up
looking for a meal. However, wildebeests flee en masse when
they so much as sniff a lion. The more lions that show up, the
fewer wildebeest will hang around waiting to be eaten. This will
lead to a reduction in the number of lions, which will cause an
increase in the number of wildebeests, and so on, until
equilibrium is reached.
Suppose we were talking about a virtual world rather than a
watering hole. Substitute “killers” for “lions,” “socializers” for
“wildebeests” and you get a reasonable approximation of the
relationship between the two.
This is an example of the dynamics of player types. Increasing or
decreasing the number of players practicing one playing style
can affect the number practicing another. This in turn can have
knock-on effects, and so on, until eventually the system finds
some point of balance.
There are two ways that player numbers can change (they can
rise or fall) and 10 possible pairings of types (A/A, A/E, A/E, A/K,
E/E, E/S, E/K, S/S, S/K, and K/K). Some of these are free of
dependencies—increasing or decreasing the number of
explorers has no direct result at all on the number of socializers,
and vice versa. Others have effects of varying degrees. Based on
empirical observations, the dynamics can be summarized as
follows:
Players 179
• More achievers leads to:
• Slightly fewer socializers
• More killers
• Fewer achievers leads to:
• Slightly fewer socializers
• Fewer killers
• More explorers leads to:
• More explorers
• Slightly fewer killers
• Fewer explorers leads to:
• Slightly more killers
• More socializers leads to:
• More socializers
• More killers
• Fewer socializers leads to:
• Fewer socializers
• Fewer killers
• More killers leads to:
• Fewer achievers
• Slightly fewer explorers
• Far fewer socializers
• Fewer killers leads to:
• More achievers
• Far more socializers
Figure 3.2 shows these relationships.
180 Chapter 3
Figure 3.2 Influence graph.
Key: An arrow represents an increase (solid) or decrease
(dashed) in the box from which it points. The effect on
the box it points at will be either to increase (solid
arrowhead) or decrease (open arrowhead) the contents
of that box. The effect will be either slight (thin line),
medium (medium line), or great (heavy line).
What Figure 3.2 shows is that most of the action concerns
killers and socializers, where killer numbers are sensitive to
those of socializers and socializer numbers are highly sensitive
to those of killers. Explorers keep themselves to themselves, but
have a mildly depressing effect on the number of killers; a
virtual world can really only ever benefit by attracting
Players 181
explorers. Achievers and killers are in equilibrium, and there’s a
negative effect on the number of socializers if the number of
achievers changes (up or down).
How can this be used predictively?
As an example, suppose that for whatever reason (advertising, a
new patch, the closing of another virtual world) the number of
killers increased dramatically. What would happen? Looking at
the influence graph, it’s clear that there would be a huge drop
immediately in the number of socializers. Socializers are in an
amplification loop with themselves—the more/fewer there are,
the more/fewer will come/go. Thus, the number of socializers
will drop even more until perhaps only a rump remains. Killers
also have a lowering effect on the number of achievers.
Lowering the number of achievers will reduce the number of
killers. Either this will eventually reach some balance, or the
numbers of both killers and achievers will drop so far that there
are too few left to maintain a critical mass and the game will die.
By repeating this exercise for all player types, stable
configurations can be discovered. It turns out there are four:
• Type 1. Killers and achievers in equilibrium, with hardly
any socializers and explorers.
• Type 2. Socializers in dominance, with everyone else
having only bit parts.
• Type 3. A balance between all four types, with enough
explorers to control the killers.
• Type 4. An empty virtual world.
Of these, type 3 offers the best prospects for a world’s longevity
(types 1 and 2 will tend toward type 4 eventually). However, it is
not clear that a large-scale virtual world, with its inherent
community fragmentation, could ever attain this state. This
explains why most virtual worlds are either social (typified by
182 Chapter 3
MUCKs, MUSHes, and MOOs) or adventure (typified by
DikuMUDs, LPMUDs, and the big, graphical games). In practice,
among the general public there are large numbers of socializers
and achievers in comparison to explorers and killers, so it’s just
as well that types 1 and 2 are relatively stable.
After the underlying dynamics of a particular virtual world are
understood, it’s possible for the live team to influence that
world’s condition. If the number of socializers is dropping to the
extent that the world is becoming “too” achiever-oriented, a
simple solution might be to advertise the virtual world in a
manner that would be more likely to attract socializers than
achievers. Changes to the virtual world’s design can also help,
for example by heavily increasing the challenge to achievers (so
as to persuade them to go around in groups, which socializers
like) or by adding socializer goodies (such as letting them write
their own in-world newspapers). There are plenty of ways to do
this12. Solutions are easy to come by (if not necessarily easy to
implement); you have to realize you have a problem first,
though.
Incidentally, there is a possibility that a virtual world can fake
the presence of a player type without actually having players of
that type around. The type most amenable to this is that of
killers. Players can tolerate being inconveniently beaten up by
mobiles more readily than they can by fellow players, and
mobiles have the advantage of being controllable. Surprisingly,
there is a lot to be said for this approach; although it doesn’t
replicate the effect of having killers exactly, nevertheless it can
successfully approximate it to varying degrees. See the
discussion on persona death in Chapter 5, “Life in the Virtual
World,” for more details.
12 The original Hearts, Clubs, Diamonds, Spades paper lists over 30 examples.
Players 183
General Observations
I noted in Chapter 1 that many players of virtual worlds don’t
consider themselves to be gamers, even if the virtual world is
billed as a game. What’s more, they’re correct— they aren’t
gamers.
People sign up to large-scale commercial virtual worlds because
these are advertised as games, but once there they don’t
necessarily want to play them as games; ironically, games have
become the new “noble content.” Players have different ways of
amusing themselves. Applying the player types categorizations:
• Achievers see virtual worlds as games. Their aim is to
improve, advance, and ultimately win (for some common,
easily stated, world-supported definition of “win”).
• Explorers see them more as pastimes, such as reading,
gardening, or messing about in the kitchen. Reward
comes from discovery and furthering understanding.
• Socializers see virtual worlds as entertainment, such as
TV, clubs, or concerts. Discussion of the performance and
behavior of themselves and others is their main draw.
• Killers see virtual worlds as sport. This is of the huntin’,
shootin’, and fishin’ kind, rather than the running the
100-meter or the marathon kind13. If the user base is
large enough, some killers may treat virtual worlds as
team sports—with themselves as captain or head coach.
It’s interesting to postulate how pitching a virtual world as
something other than a game might work. To attract socializers,
for example, a world could be portrayed as a sophisticated chat
room with built-in toys that players can do things with; in this
context, achievement is a mere by-product that arises when
13 Although that’s a possibility too if they enjoy crushing the opposition.
184 Chapter 3
people choose to use the toys to play games of their own
devising. This approach would apply well to something like The
Sims Online.
Of course, by focusing on only one notion of what a particular
virtual world “is,” there’s a danger that people will believe it is
not for them and will stay away. Would achievers bother with
The Sims Online if it didn’t at least nod in the direction of being a
game? It’s only because of the growing opinion that computer
games don’t have to be games (which was pioneered in part by
The Sims itself) that non-gamers have come round to accepting
them as noble content. However, if they entered a virtual world
and found that it really was all game, they wouldn’t hang around
for long. Part of a designer’s work is therefore to ensure that the
philosophy governing what their virtual world is “about” is not
too exclusive. If the design sends the wrong messages to
players, it can alienate them.
On the other hand, there’s a risk of going too far: That by trying
to please everybody, a designer can end up pleasing nobody. It
can be fine to tailor advertisements to particular audiences: The
movie Pearl Harbor14 was successfully sold as a war story in
America and a love story in Japan, for example. However, there
can be problems when groups with different expectations meet:
Japanese moviegoers would not necessarily have enjoyed Pearl
Harbor had they been sharing a theater with Americans
cheering the U.S. counter-attack. In describing a virtual world,
it’s okay to tell all players the same thing; it’s okay to tell them
the same thing in different ways; what isn’t recommended is
telling them different things. There’s a distinction between
saying “this is a game for everyone” and “this is a game for you.”
14 Randall Wallace (writer) and Michael Bay (director), Pearl Harbor. USA,
Touchstone Pictures, 2001.
Players 185
What designers tell players shapes the way a virtual world is
perceived. “Tell” in this situation means through deeds rather
than words: A world may be promoted as a place where basketweavers are as respected as much as warriors, but when there
are 25 different kinds of weapons and two different kinds of
baskets, that’s not what it’s saying. This topic of how a design
can (for better or worse) send messages to players is discussed
in more detail in Chapter 5.
Using Player Types
Why use the player types model for virtual world design?
One purely pragmatic reason is that because it was the first
such model, everyone knows about it; it therefore provides
common ground for communicating ideas with other designers.
This is by no means the only reason, though.
The model’s main strength is its categorization of players into
the four particular types: achievers, explorers, socializers, and
killers. It has its roots in a consideration of what people find fun
in virtual worlds, and is therefore attuned to situations that
might impact on this: all big design decisions, in other words. If
you’re creating a virtual world and don’t have an actual user
base yet, categorizing it along the lines the model advocates will
give you some idea of how the players might take to a feature
(or not); if you’re running a live game, the model will suggest
how proposed changes might be received by existing players.
The dynamics that underlie the categorization are of less
practical use to most designers. Occasionally it might be that a
major, major alteration is planned, which will throw the balance
so out of whack that some compensatory change will be
necessary to stop a hemorrhage of players; this is not
something that is an issue most of the time, though. When you
add new functionality, it’s useful to run through the player
186 Chapter 3
types to be sure it doesn’t help or hurt any of them too much;
it’s less useful to wonder what the next level of knock-on effects
will be. Dynamics are useful for consultants looking at virtual
worlds that have either no user base or a very ill one; for day-today design, categorization is the handier tool.
You don’t have to use this or any other model, of course. This
one happens to have been applied successfully over the years to
the players of a wide variety of virtual worlds, but that doesn’t
mean another model might not help designers more. The main
problem is that there really aren’t any other models to speak of
right now; about the only other one in regular use categorizes
players on the basis of their experience— “What will newbies
make of this?” Perhaps the greatest service the player types
model has rendered is to show that theoretical design aids can
exist at all; if someone can produce a superior one, so much the
better.
The player types model does have its limitations, of course, and
designers should be aware of them. The main ones to watch out
for are:
• It doesn’t address how players change style over time. The
classic path is killer to explorer to achiever to socializer, but
others are possible.
• It doesn’t account for players who appear to play one style
while actually playing another. If your achievers regard
killing as achievement, it’s bad; if your explorers see it as
worthy of exploration, it’s a calamity.
• If a virtual world is large enough that it can split into
(geographical or social) sub-worlds, the model might apply
separately to individual sub-worlds but not to the world as a
whole.
• It assumes that players are independent. For virtual worlds
with large numbers of players, this may not be the case.
Killers don’t often get along with each other, so in most
Players 187
worlds they play as lone wolves. However, in a large world
where one of them can lead a gang of 50 impressionable
achievers, their effect is somewhat magnified.
• It assumes that virtual worlds are independent. Players
might have cut their teeth in a different virtual world before
visiting this one.
• It can’t account for poor design. If your world has too few
socializers, the model can suggest means by which to
increase the numbers, but they may not work. It has no way
of knowing you’re running a MUD played using mobile
phones and that people just can’t be bothered to thumb in
commands.
• It is open to misinterpretation. Players aren’t always good
judges of their own playing style: Many achievers seem to
think they’re killers or explorers; some killers mistakenly
label themselves as socializers. Asking self-appointed
representatives of one type what they think of a possible
major change could lead to a questionable result.
Beyond this, the model may apply but still be of little or no use.
Designers of worlds that people play for reasons other than
having fun (for example, to learn creative writing) have no real
need of it; designers of worlds that people can’t have fun playing
(for example, because the worlds are depressing or
incomprehensible) have other problems they should solve first.
On the other hand, the model has been successfully applied
beyond the confines of virtual worlds into domains such as
online community management and tabletop RPGs15
.
15 Footnote addicts who looked at the Knights of the Dinner Table comic book
series after I mentioned it in Chapter 1 may be amused to consider the
following mapping: Bob/killer, Dave/achiever, Sara/socializer, Brian/explorer.
188 Chapter 3
Although designers working in areas related to virtual worlds
may find the player types model flexible enough to be of use, the
further they are away from the subject then the less likely the
dynamics are to work. They can use it to inform, but probably
not to prescribe.
I should point out that although this research has been used on
a number of occasions to “prove” that game-oriented virtual
worlds “need” killers, this is not the case. The model is
descriptive, not normative: It shows what will happen if the
proportions of player types changes, but doesn’t advocate one
over another. If you want achievers but don’t want killers, you
can have them; you need to be aware that without intervention
the achievers won’t stay long, though. Similarly, if you design a
game targeted at killers, it will require a major effort to stop the
poor ones from quitting in frustration and the better ones
quitting when there’s no one left to bully.
It is important to remember that even if the player types
dynamics are functioning and changes are being made with an
eye to the categorizations, it may all be worth nothing. External
influence can easily overwhelm the model. If the virtual world
crashes the whole time, or the customer service representatives
are unusually surly, or the price triples, then players have some
reason other than lack of fun to consider not playing. If that’s
the case, designers should concentrate on high-profile changes
of whatever nature they feel is appropriate—anything, so long
as it will pull in some players after the problems are fixed. It’s no
use trying to balance a player base when there are no players to
balance; recover the players, then balance it.
Most of these external effects need only be planned for as
contingencies, if at all. There is one, however, with which
designers do need to be concerned as it is the very life blood of
their virtual worlds: the newbie flow.
Players 189
The Newbie Flow
Imagine that your virtual world is a bucket, and players are
water. There are holes in the bucket through which the water
escapes. If you don’t add water regularly, eventually it will all
leak away. There may be a pool at the very bottom that isn’t
high enough to reach the lowest hole—that’s you and your diehard players. Eventually, even this will evaporate away, though.
All virtual worlds need a flow of newbies if they are to survive. It
doesn’t matter how wonderful your world is or how dedicated
your players are: If you don’t have newbies, you’re in big trouble.
The flow does not have to be constant, just regular. As long as
your bucket is big enough to accommodate a sudden wave of
newbies should one arrive (for example, because school is out, or
because of TV coverage), it’s enough that the average inflow
does not fall below the average outflow.
So far, so faucet/drain.
Designers don’t get to control where newbies come from
directly, although by designing an appealing virtual world they
can do so indirectly (as players tell their real-life friends how
great it is16). Newbies can sometimes show up on their own,
having been looking for a virtual world that suits them and
deciding to give this one a try. For small-scale virtual worlds,
these two sources are often sufficient to keep everything ticking
over nicely. Otherwise, if you want newbies, then you have to
use marketing to entice them through your door.
16 Hopefully not so great that they have lost all their real-life friends by the
time they emerge from it.
190 Chapter 3
Well, that’s not absolutely true: There is another possibility that
I alluded to in Chapter 1—the newbie hose17. This is where
someone else has control of a flow of newbies and points it in
your direction. The classic example is when a virtual world has
links with a large portal that isn’t ashamed of it, as with those
on AOL in the mid-1990s. This is not the only way a newbie hose
can arise, though. The buzz among the first players of EverQuest
was so great that normal word-of-mouth became effectively a
newbie hose; Star Wars Galaxies got one by virtue of its license.
The advantage of a newbie hose is that it doesn’t matter how
full of holes your bucket is, there’s so much water going into it
that it’s always full. Hey, you can even add more buckets if you
want. The disadvantage of the newbie hose is that sooner or
later it either empties the tank or gets pointed elsewhere. When
that happens, someone has to answer the very real question of
where the newbies are going to come from instead.
The rate at which people leave a virtual community is called
churn. It’s expressed as a percentage of the user base that leaves
over a set time period (a month is implied, but other periods are
possible). Thus, if you have 100,000 players in your virtual world
and every month 5,000 of them fail to renew their subscription,
the churn is 5%. This would mean that on average players would
last 20 months before quitting. In general, the aim is to keep the
churn as low as possible18
.
Companies don’t publish their churn rates, because the figures
can affect share prices adversely. AOL, for example, used to run
at around 3% churn, but when it was unable to reduce this it
17 The term comes from Clement Chambers, whose company On-line ran
Federation II in the UK after CompuNet closed down. He also coined the
prefix massively multiplayer.
18 For non-commercial virtual worlds, churn is harder to measure because
you can never be sure when someone has actually “left.”
Players 191
stopped releasing the data and emphasized absolute subscriber
numbers instead; later, it advocated using the total time that
users spent online as a measure of its increasing success19
.
Established virtual worlds have churn rates under 5%20, which is
considered excellent for this kind of product. A newbie hose
masks churn, though. If a virtual world is growing by 3,000
players a month, everything looks rosy. However, that’s a net
increase. If 3,000 people signed up and none left, it’s good; if
103,000 signed up and 100,000 left, it’s not so good. An August
2002 article21 quoting SOE stated that EverQuest players stayed
with the game for eight months22. That means an average of
one-eighth of EQ players quit every month—around 54,000 of
them, in other words. Given that EQ was experiencing a net
growth of around 2,300 players a month at the time23, this
suggests that they were signing up 56,300 new subscriptions.
Attracting 56,300 new subscribers a month is very impressive;
losing 54,000 is also very impressive, but for different reasons.
A churn of 12.5% for a user base the size of EverQuest’s makes
them very reliant on a newbie hose, which perhaps explains
SOE’s decision to expand into the Korean market in 2003.
The importance of the newbie flow is so great that designers
should put as little in the way of it as possible. It might be
argued that those designers benefiting from the luxury of a
19 Actually, 3% churn isn’t bad for an online service. A CompuServe executive
once told me its churn ran at 10%, although that may have been part of a sob
story to convince me to take a cut in the royalties for British Legends. If it
was, it didn’t work.
20 MUD2’s is approximately 4%, for example.
21 Tim Green, Brave New World. London, MCV, Intent Media, August 30 2002.
22 I assume this does not include players who quit in the first, “free” month
(for which churn is by far the worst).
23 According to SOE press releases, EverQuest had 400,000 subscribers in late
June 2001 and 430,000 in late July 2002, which gives an average net gain of
about 2,300 per month for that period.
192 Chapter 3
newbie hose can concentrate on retention (that is, keeping
people who have lasted a few sessions in the virtual world)
rather than attraction; for the majority of virtual worlds,
though, newbie-friendliness should always come before oldbiefriendliness. Most of the time, the two can exist in harmony
anyway, with those problems that do arise only doing so
because the designers forget one or the other. Sometimes,
though, what interests oldbies can put off newbies entirely.
Chapter 5 discusses an important example of this (the trickledown effect) in more detail.
Player types can help with the newbie flow. They’re no use for
absolute newbies, who are often so confused or shy that they
simply don’t know what to do (therefore the first concern of
designers is to persuade them to do anything at all!). However,
once a player has found their feet, player styles apply. Many
newbies will first want to ascertain the established norms of
behavior (which can involve killer-style behavior), whereupon
they will spend a period exploring the virtual world and their
abilities within it. Having gained the necessary skills and
knowledge, they can start to play “properly” as an achiever.
Months later, when they have reached the top, they retire into
the life of socializer. This is the killer to explorer to achiever to
socializer path I mentioned earlier. Not all players follow this
“main sequence,” of course, and not all of them follow it at the
same speed. Someone who is at heart a socializer will soon
decide that exploring and achieving is not for them, and will
reach the final stage early; someone who is basically a gamer
will achieve everything they can do, then find there’s little to do
but chat or leave (so they’ll leave).
Coming back to newbie streams, then, the things that designers
should concentrate most on for inexperienced players are
enabling them to find the world’s behavioral boundaries quickly
and providing plenty of interesting things to see and do that
Players 193
will help them develop their playing skills24. Support from
customer service greeters can make some of this run more
smoothly in practice, but that doesn’t mean designers should
shirk their responsibilities.
At this early stage, there’s a possibility that designers can affect
the future playing styles of impressionable or open-minded
newbies. A player who is an achiever in other virtual worlds
may discover the joys of being an explorer in yours, if you let
them see what they’re missing. If you want more of one player
type than another, then making it appealing to newbies is a way
to achieve your goal. This is not to say that players should be
given the hard sell: It’s about presenting opportunities, not armtwisting. EverQuest 2 has a particularly impressive scheme for
bedding in newbies (even though what they’re bedded into isn’t
a whole lot different from EverQuest 1).
A balance of player types among newbies isn’t important. After
they jump off the main sequence and start to play in the style
that best suits them, that’s when they join the majority for
which standard type dynamics apply. An overall balance among
non-newbies is important, because balance leads to retention.
Meanwhile, the next batch of newbies is beginning the process,
and the wheel turns once more.
We’ll be looking at the concept of “main sequence” in some
detail later on in this chapter. It gets a Whole Lot More
Complicated.
24 But not so many that the newbie is overwhelmed. With graphical virtual
worlds, there is a case for providing special newbie-friendly client skins, so as
not to expose newbies to the full majesty of what awaits. Textual worlds do
this implicitly by only initially telling newbies about the commands they
need to know—the rest can be found deeply nested in help trees or through
conversation with more experienced players.
194 Chapter 3
The Bartle Test
The final point to mention about player types is the Bartle Test.
I’m often asked about the Bartle Test, on the grounds that
because it bears my name I must be responsible for it. Sadly, I’m
not. The test is the brainchild of Erwin S. Andreasen and
Brandon A. Downey, who wrote it in response to my player
types paper so as to test the theory.
The Bartle Test is an online binary-choice questionnaire25 that
players of virtual worlds can take to discover what player type
they are. As such, it offers potentially very useful information
for designers. Are players mainly achievers and socializers, as
empirical observation would suggest? Just how numerous are
killers? Are there large numbers of silent explorers out there
that no one knows about? How do the different codebases
compare? Answers to these questions could provide solid
figures that would help designers visualize the make-up of the
user base they have or they want.
The result of having taken the Bartle test is a Bartle Quotient,
expressed as three letters. For example, ASK26 means you’re
foremost an achiever, then a socializer, and then a killer. The
first letter in the result therefore indicates a person’s primary
playing style.
Of the 176,000+ people27 who had taken the test by April 2003,
29% rated as explorers, 25% as socializers, 23% as killers, and
21% as achievers. Of the combinations, SEA was highest at 12%,
followed by ESA at 10% and EAS at 8%.
25 http://www.andreasen.org/bartle/
26 ASK is the rating you get if you answer all the questions with the first of
the two options presented.
27 Their numbers grow by over a hundred a day.
Players 195
These figures almost certainly do not reflect anything like the
actual split among players. Reasons for this include
• Participants in the test are self-selecting. Most don’t hear
about it until they’ve played a virtual world for a while,
therefore they are not representative of the general user
population.
• It is clear from the nature of many of the questions what
is being tested for, which means players can give the
answer they believe will lead to a cooler rating (for
example, explorer or killer) rather than the truth.
• There is no “neither” answer. A socializer being asked to
choose between defeating an enemy and exploring an
area may as well flip a coin to answer, given that they
don’t particularly care for either.
• Some answers favor two or more types. Killers and
achievers would probably both prefer defeating an
enemy to exploring an area, but the questionnaire can’t
disambiguate them.
• Ties aren’t handled very well. If you choose achiever and
socializer answers with equal frequency, you will be
recorded as favoring A over S.
Just because the test is flawed, that doesn’t mean it’s useless,
however. It helps players, for sure, because it lists the virtual
worlds that most closely match each player type combination.
So many people have taken the test that it has a large database
of scores for individual virtual worlds (over 700 of them); if you
end a test with a rating of ASK, you’ll be shown a list of the five
virtual worlds that have the most players also rating ASK, and
the actual percentages involved. Alternatively, if you’re a killer
and want to find a game full of socializers to annoy, you can look
at the overall statistics and find that out too. The figures may
not be formally accurate, but they’re pretty good in relative
196 Chapter 3
terms. If one virtual world scores fewer achievers than another,
the chances are it really does have fewer achievers28
.
For designers, the overall average scores aren’t too helpful as
they are skewed by the popularity of the virtual worlds from
which the figures are derived. The ratings for individual virtual
worlds are of more interest (see Table 3.1).
Table 3.1 Bartle Quotients by Virtual Worlds
Ultima Online EverQuest Asheron’s Call Dark Age of
Camelot
SEA 11% ESA 12% ESA 12% SEA 8%
ESA 10% SEA11% EAS 10% ESA 8%
EAS 8% EAS 10% SEA 8% EAS 7%
This shows the three top-rated quotients for each of the first
four virtual worlds to obtain results from 1,000 respondents.
There are obvious similarities: None of these quotients involve
killers29 and none of them place achievers first. The actuality
may be different, of course (EQ is achiever heaven, but you
wouldn’t know it from this set of data). However, as relative
values they allow some conclusions to be drawn:
• UO and EQ are fairly similar, although UO allows a little
more variety (its ratios are slightly lower).
• AC is heavy with explorers—exactly the kind of people who
would be expected to like the idea of story arcs.
• DAoC accommodates playing styles less rigidly than the
others (its ratios are much lower). This is perhaps because
many of its players cut their teeth on UO, EQ, or AC but were
28 This makes MUD1’s perennial placement in the bottom five for socializers
all the more interesting.
29 This may be because killers tend to get banned from these virtual worlds.
Players 197
unsatisfied; DAoC (with its RvR system) could provide a
different experience, so they switched.
Bartle Test results don’t allow designers to infer much about an
individual virtual world in isolation. However, the relative
effects of a major difference between otherwise similar virtual
worlds (for example, ones sharing a codebase) can be judged. If a
designer is considering such a feature for their own game, some
indication of the possible effects on its user base can thus be
derived.
For the record, I haven’t taken the Bartle Test. This isn’t because
I object to it—I don’t. Rather, it’s because I can no longer play
virtual worlds for fun, so I can’t answer fun-related questions.
Any responses I did give would depend solely on the player I
was role-playing at the time, which would rather miss the test’s
point.
Other Categorizations
Although my player types categorization is perhaps the best
known of those available to designers, it is not the only one.
There are many others, of which three are of particular interest.
Two of these are based on anecdotal evidence, and one on
statistics.
Social Dimensions
One of the earliest systems to use a primarily graphical
interface was Habitat, which appeared in the mid-1980s.
Although not strictly speaking a virtual world (it was essentially
a graphical chat room), it nevertheless did have close
similarities and is regarded as an important milestone in the
development of graphical virtual worlds.
198 Chapter 3
The system administrator30 of Habitat between 1986 and 1988
(during what would nowadays be called its beta-test phase) was
F. Randall Farmer. In 1992, he wrote a paper describing some of
his observations about the social dimensions of online
communities31
.
Randy noticed that players behave in one of five different ways:
• Passives. People who want to be entertained without
effort on their part. Habitat was only one of their online
activities. 75% of players by number, but only 20% by
connect time.
• Actives. Players for whom Habitat was their main online
activity. They got involved as soon as they logged in, and
used up most of the total connect time.
• Motivators. People who make life interesting for the other
players by organizing events, setting up institutions,
opening debates. A good ratio is one motivator for every
50 passives and actives.
• Caretakers. Mature motivators, who may be employees of
the developer. They helped newbies, mediated conflicts,
noted bugs, and did other things that would today fall
into the province of customer service.
• Geek Gods32. The designers and implementers who
ensure that the virtual world works, and who make
changes when it doesn’t.
30 The Habitat term was Oracle.
31 F. Randall Farmer, Social Dimensions of Habitat’s Citizenry. Carl Eugene
Loeffler & Tim Anderson (eds.), The Virtual Reality Casebook. New York, Van
Nostrand Reinhold, 1992.
32 It’s a self-deprecating pun on Greek Gods.
Players 199
The categories here are quite vague, and two of them concern
groups of people not normally considered to be proper “players”
anyway. However, it’s not so much the categorizations that are
important as the fact that Randy noticed there was a pattern
involved—what he called the Path of Ascension. Players started
off as passives, then became actives, then motivators, then
caretakers, then finally geek gods. People should be encouraged
to move along the path in order to develop a vibrant, thriving
community.
It may seem today that all this is fairly obvious. Of course you
should try to get people more involved in the community! Did
people really ever think differently?
Yes they did. Back then, players were frequently lumped
together as an amorphous mass, especially by the big online
services. There was a recognition that there were useful
“mother hen” people who would do all your organizing for you
happily and without pay, but no one gave any thought to where
these individuals might come from—they were just there. Randy
pointed out how they got there, and how to get them there.
Unfortunately (for them), this had little influence on the big
online services. The way they saw it, there were fewer people at
each step of the path, so transition meant a loss of players. If
75% of the players were using 20% of the bandwidth, then any
movement would reduce the overall number of players while
increasing the bandwidth. Even with players being charged by
the hour, this was too big a price to pay, so they kept the status
quo. As a result, the community became sterile and unattractive
to newbies.
The Path of Ascension concerns the development of players as
they grow in maturity. As such, at least in its first three steps it
ought to be related to the main sequence of the player types
model; we’ll see how, exactly, a little later.
200 Chapter 3
A further refinement to the idea of progression came with the
notion of “Circles.”
Circles
Circles is the name given by then Ultima Online player Hedron to
his 199833 description of how players advance through different
states of maturity. Although it is not a particularly well-known
approach, I shall describe it here because it makes some very
insightful observations34
.
Hedron’s vision is of virtual world players organized as
concentric circles. They begin in the outer circles, and advance
in their experience and attitudes through the inner circles; the
analogy is (ultimately) the mandala of Buddhism, which
adherents can use to symbolize conditions of spirituality that
they desire to re-create through mental exercises.
From observation, Hedron postulates six circles, representing
six increasingly higher states of being for players in virtual
worlds:
• First Circle—Survival. Players begin as newbies. Their main
concerns are acquiring the basic skills, stats, and items they
need simply to survive.
• Second Circle—Competence. After players have sufficient
expertise so that they can make progress, they begin to do
so. The virtual world becomes more “fun.”
• Third Circle—Excel. Having become “pretty good,” players
aim to become “very good.” They seek out the toughest
challenge that they can find in order to “beat” it.
33 http://www.falseprophecies.com/sixcircles.htm
34 You’ll have to wait until Chapter 5 to discover just how insightful they are,
I’m afraid!
Players 201
• Fourth Circle—Prove Mastery. Having acquired technical
mastery, players feel the need to demonstrate this to other
players. They will typically do this either by
helping/mentoring/leading or by attacking them35
.
• Fifth Circle—Seek New Challenges. Players feel that they have
exhausted everything that the virtual world has
programmed in for them to do. The only entertainment left
is interaction with other players.
• Sixth Circle—Everything Is One. Players recognize all ways
that people can play the virtual world, and have a full
understanding of the merits of them all. Players accept and
appreciate each other, the virtual world, and the way things
are.
Hedron’s article goes into some depth about the options
available to players at the fifth circle, at least one of which
(leaving to play some other virtual world) does not necessarily
lead to the sixth circle. There’s no need to discuss that here,
however.
All three of the approaches discussed so far rely on the
observations of individuals for their substance. There is a more
scientific approach available, however: statistics.
Facets
The most extensive study of the player base for any individual
virtual world is Nick Yee’s The Norrathian Scrolls36. This
important survey is famed for both its extensiveness and its
statistical rigor. It considers the real-world and in-game
demographics for EverQuest, and correlates the two. For
35 When this article was written, Ultima Online still had problems with bands
of roving killers.
36 Nick Yee, The Norrathian Scrolls, 2001.
http://www.nickyee.com/eqt/report.html.
202 Chapter 3
example, it provided concrete evidence that (on the whole) male
players tend more toward achievement than female players and
that (on the whole) female players tended more toward
socializing. Its scope also considered other issues of use to
academic researchers (for example virtual gender-bending).
Although The Norrathian Scrolls found differences among
players based on their real-world demographics, they were not
strong enough to be of use to designers. Yes, on the whole male
players are more driven by achievement than female players,
but there are nevertheless plenty of female players who are
achievers and plenty of male ones who are socializers. Nick
therefore decided to undertake a second survey to look for more
fundamental differences—ones that did not make reference to
real-world demographics.
In March 2002, he introduced the notion of facets37
.
The point of Nick Yee’s second study was to answer the
question, “What do people want out of a game?”38. The
methodology employed was to ask respondents a series of
multi-choice questions concerning their motivation for playing
in graphical virtual worlds39, then running a statistical analysis
on the results. The multichoice questions themselves were
constructed so as to act as indicators for the four player types
and a number of other relationships that Nick had noticed in his
previous studies. The point of this was to see if the answers that
37 Nick Yee, Facets: 5 Motivational Factors for Why People Play MMORPG’s.
2002.
http://www.nickyee.com/facets/home.html.
38 But for using the word “game” rather than “MUD,” this is the same
question that my player types paper attempts to answer.
39 Of the 6,700 respondents, the split was: EverQuest 5,486, Dark Age of
Camelot 1,044, Asheron’s Call 83, and Anarchy Online 68.
Players 203
players provided really did cluster toward the player types, or
whether there were more “natural” motivational groupings.
A factor analysis of the responses discovered five significant
motivations (the facets):
• Relationship. The desire to make meaningful relationships
with other players in the virtual world.
• Immersion. The desire to become immersed in the virtual
world.
• Grief. The desire to objectify other players for personal gain.
• Achievement. The desire to become powerful within the
context of the virtual world.
• Leadership. The assertiveness and sociability of the player.
Immersion and leadership are qualities not addressed in the
player types model. Relationship matches the socializer type
well, emphasizing the formation of relationships as a primary
motivation. Achievement matches the achiever type well, too,
with evidence that the reason players like to achieve is so as to
become powerful in the virtual world. Grief corresponds
roughly with killers, although not to the extent that it covers
the “interfering busybody” variety. Most interestingly, explorers
don’t appear to exist as a type at all.
Because of the lack of evidence for explorers, the survey was
amended to promote those factors that would indicate their
existence40. Nevertheless, the result did not change. Either:
Explorers do not play graphical virtual worlds; explorers do not
answer questionnaires; explorers subvert questionnaires; or,
explorer is an insignificant type (if it exists at all). This is
especially interesting because it seems to contradict the
40 This “improved” questionnaire was answered by a further 500
respondents.
204 Chapter 3
findings of the Bartle Test (which in turn contradicts my own
empirical observations).
Of course, the study has its flaws, many of which are discussed
in the paper itself. Among the most pertinent are
• The motivations suggested by the survey are implicit in
the questions.
• Brainstorming motivations is as subjective as
brainstorming player types.
• There is no guarantee that there are only five facets, just
that there are at least five facets.
• There is no guarantee that the facets are all at the same
level of abstraction. They might be like “orange, banana,
lemon, lime, fruit.”
• The labeling of the facets is not provided by the factor
analysis.
• Some of the facets overlap, but some don’t. Leadership
could be an expression of an achievement, grief, or
relationship facet, but not of immersion.
None of these flaws are show-stoppers at this stage of the
research. More work needs to be done, of course, particularly in
constructing an underlying mechanism to model the
motivations, but already there are some interesting results. The
non-appearance of explorers is perhaps the most significant of
these, but a follow-up study41 also suggested a number of others.
From a designer’s point of view, the big ones are
• Highly immersive does not mean highly addictive (and vice
versa). Players can feel they are in a world without suffering
withdrawal when they are absent from it.
41 Nick Yee, Codename Blue: An Ongoing Study of MMORPG Players. 2002.
http://www.nickyee.com/codeblue/home.html.
Players 205
• Immersion and addiction both imply retention. Players who
experience strong feelings of presence in a virtual world, or
who feel anxious when they are not playing, will keep their
accounts for longer.
• Stickiness is strongest for relationships, then for
achievement, then for leadership. If you want people to stay
with your virtual world for longer, you should first and
foremost try to foster relationships between them. It’s more
effective than locking them into an advancement system. It’s
more effective than locking them into a team.
These observations alone would make facets worthy of serious
consideration by designers, and further research in this area is
eagerly awaited. It’s good to know what the correlations are, but
it would be better if we knew why they are. If a model could be
devised which was able to articulate the causalities that lead to
these conclusions, we’d have a theory rather than merely data.
Designers could then use it both predictively and quantitatively,
backed up by actual numbers.
Facets have the potential to supersede player types as the de
facto means by which players are categorized. More research is
necessary, but for the moment the results are very promising.
Levels of Immersion
One of Nick Yee’s facets is immersion. This is a concept with a
long and distinguished history in role-playing contexts42, and it
has been mentioned a number of times already in this book. So
what, exactly, is it?
42 The first use of it that I can find with regard to a virtual world is an editor’s
introduction to an article I wrote for an early computer magazine: “Richard
Bartle immerses himself in MUD.” Richard Bartle, Stuck in the MUD. London,
Your Commodore, Argus Press, March 1985.
http://www.mud.co.uk/richard/ycmar85.htm.
206 Chapter 3
Fundamentally, immersion is the sense that a player has of
being in a virtual world. The more immersive a virtual world, the
greater its ability to immerse its players. Some virtual worlds
(particularly non-game ones) deliberately aim for low
immersion, so as not to distract from their purpose; most,
however, aim to be as immersive as possible.
Although players can experience many degrees of immersion,
there are conceptual or emotional barriers along the way that
players must pass if they are to proceed further. Immersion can
therefore most usefully be described in terms of a series of
levels:
• Player
• Avatar
• Character
• Persona
The human being sitting at the computer, interacting with the
virtual world, is a player. The player will be controlling an object
within the virtual world that is associated with them. The way
the player regards that object is a measure of their immersion. If
they consider it simply to be a computer construction with
which they don’t identify (as they might, say, a document in a
word processor), then they are not immersed.
Most players of virtual worlds easily identify with the object
they control. At the very least, they regard the object as their
representative in the virtual world. For them, the object is their
avatar—a puppet that they control and the conduit through
which they act. Players will refer to their avatars in the third
person, but may flesh them out with a few personality quirks.
“Alice has a thing about cats, so she won’t go near them.” On the
whole, though, avatars are mere conveniences—ways to effect
change in a virtual world.
Players 207
The next stage is for players to stop thinking of the object they
control as their representative, but rather as their
representation. The object is a tokenization of the player. This is
the character level, at which the majority of players are found. A
character is an extension of a player’s self, a whole personality
that the player dons when they enter the virtual world. Players
may maintain several characters, each a distinct and rounded
personality, which the player treats as a friend. Characters are
referred to by name; although a player might say, “I lost my
sword last night,” what they mean is more like, “Thorina lost her
sword when I was playing her last night.”
Avatars are dolls, characters are simulacra, but neither are
people. The final level of immersion—the one which makes
virtual worlds wholly different to anything else—is that of the
persona.
A persona is a player, in a world. That’s in it. Any separate
distinction of character is gone—the player is the character.
You’re not role-playing a being, you are that being; you’re not
assuming an identity, you are that identity; you’re not
projecting a self, you are that self. If you’re killed in a fight, you
don’t feel that your character has died, you feel that you have
died43. There’s no level of indirection, no filtering, no question:
You are there.
This is something that many people examining virtual worlds
from the outside fail to understand. Avatars and characters are
just steps along the way. Looking at characters to try to develop
an understanding of why virtual worlds are so appealing is
pointless except in the case of die-hard role-players. Sometimes
43 Not that anyone could ever verify that this is what having died actually
feels like, of course.
208 Chapter 3
full immersion is likened to an altered state of consciousness44;
this is much closer to the truth, but still misses the mark (you
can daydream while in a virtual world without leaving it).
It’s about identity. When player and character merge to become
a persona, that’s immersion; that’s what people get from virtual
worlds that they can’t get from anywhere else; that’s when they
stop playing the world and start living it.
I should point out that my use of some of the terms here is
rather technical. In my explanation of the different levels of
immersion, I was at pains to refer to the object that the player is
associated with as just that, an “object.” In everyday use,
designers will use the terms “players,” “avatars,” and
“characters” almost interchangeably. Even at the technical level,
there can be differences: Some designers, for example, use
“avatar” to refer strictly to what I have called “character,”
preferring “puppet” for what I have called “avatar;” others use it
to refer to the graphical representation of a character as
rendered on a screen (as opposed to the in-world object itself).
There’s also a possible additional level between player and
avatar, subordinate, whereby the player treats their world object
as an independent agent able to obey commands but capable of
autonomous action; in practice, though, virtual worlds are set
up such that almost every player skips the stage entirely.
Immersion is connected to the computer-mediated
communication (CMC) idea of presence—the illusion that a
mediated experience is not mediated45. Presence manifests in
44 Bromberg, Heather. Are MUDs Communities? Identity, Belonging and
Consciousness in Virtual Worlds. Rob Shields (editor), Cultures of Internet:
Virtual Spaces, Real Histories, Living Bodies. London, Sage, 1996.
45 Matthew Lombard and Theresa Ditton, At the Heart of It All: The Concept of
Presence. Los Angeles, Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication,
Players 209
several forms, of which two (“presence as immersion” and
“presence as transportation”) together correspond well with
what virtual world designers mean by “immersion;” others,
particularly “presence as realism,” can help effect immersion.
In a CMC context, transportation concerns is the sense a user
has that something is elsewhere from where it really is; for
virtual worlds, the “something” is the player and the
“elsewhere” is the virtual world. The CMC idea of immersion
does not rely on transportation, but is otherwise quite similar to
what virtual world designers mean by the term. The main
difference is one of emphasis: CMC researchers view
“perceptual immersion” and “psychological immersion” as equal
partners; virtual world designers view psychological immersion
as paramount, considering perceptual immersion to be merely
one of many possible means to achieve that end.
Immersion is also connected with the psychological concept of
flow46. Indeed, some designers see the two as equivalent. Flow is
an exhilarating sense of control and mastery that can arise from
pursuing a focused, goal-driven activity; it’s a deep involvement
that transcends distractions and sense of time, leading to an
ecstatic state of peak productivity. However, although flow
University of Southern California, September 1997.
http://www.ascusc.org/jcmc/vol3/issue2/lombard.html.
For a description specific to virtual worlds, see John Towell and Elizabeth
Towell, Presence in Text-Based Networked Virtual Environments or “MUDs.”
Presence: Teleoperators and Virtual Environments Vol. 6 (5). Cambridge MA,
MIT Press, October 1997.
http://www.fragment.nl/mirror/various/Towell_et_al.1997.Presence_in_MU
Ds.htm.
46 Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience. New
York, Harper & Row, 1990. For a description specific to virtual worlds, see
Katelyn McKenna and Sangchul Lee, A Love Affair with MUDs: Flow and Social
Interaction in Multi-User Dungeons. http://www.uni-koeln.de/~am040/
muds/ipages/mud.htm.
210 Chapter 3
regularly occurs in virtual worlds, it’s not the kind of immersion
that I’m talking about here. Players can be fully immersed
without any sense of ecstasy—indeed, they could be quite
miserable. Flow and immersion (as I mean it here) can play off
each other, but neither is dependent on the other.
Immersion is an important concept in virtual world design,
because it plays so much a part in conveying the entire virtual
experience. Without immersion, there is a fence between player
and virtual world; with immersion, the barriers are lifted—
players can concentrate on doing what they want to do, on
being what they want to be.
That said, the role of immersion is often misunderstood. It’s an
important facilitator, but that’s all it is: Although players
intensely enjoy being immersed, imbuing immersion is not itself
the ultimate aim of virtual world design. It does lie on the right
path, but a little further back than many designers suppose.
I’m getting increasingly philosophical here, but it’s not
immersion itself that is intoxicating; rather, it’s what
immersion helps deliver: identity.
The Celebration of Identity
I have a story to tell.
Polly’s Tale
So it’s a weekend in 1980. I’m in a computing laboratory with 15
students, all of whom are playing my game, MUD. This being
1980, and this being a computing laboratory, and this being a
weekend, everyone here is male. The female computer science
Players 211
undergraduates have better ways to occupy themselves (mainly
concerning male noncomputer science undergraduates).
I look around at my friends and realize that chances are not one
of us has ever had a girlfriend47, nor have we any prospect of
ever finding one. We regard all the female students on our
course as people rather than as girls, and we’d no sooner hit on
one of them than we would on each other. We’re desperately
short of social skills. The non-computing girls on campus are
split between those who shy away in horror and those who
laugh in our faces. It’s pointless even trying: We’re
inexperienced and out-gunned.
None of us is happy with the situation, but we’re resigned to it.
We suffer in silence together. Here we are on a beautiful
weekend, sitting around computers writing and playing games.
It’s so sad! I see decent, honest, likeable guys becoming more
and more set in their defensive, insular ways. They’re not bad
people, but they’re hiding themselves away! They need to grow
their personalities, not retreat into them! Yet how can they do
so, knowing that every attempt to change will inevitably end in
humiliation? There ought to be some means by which they
could behave in ways that they wouldn’t ordinarily, yet be safe
from the consequences of failure. If they could experiment,
could make adjustments, could see themselves succeeding,
could discover and emphasize those aspects of themselves they
most admired; might this not equip them to behave a similar
way in real life?
Then I look at my screen, and a thought occurs to me. (To be
continued…)
47 Or boyfriend. Essex University was politically correct years before the
term came into vogue.
212 Chapter 3
To Be, or What to Be?
The celebration of identity is the fundamental, critical,
absolutely core point of virtual worlds.
Yes, that is quite some assertion.
Except for those worlds that people play for purely practical
reasons (such as virtual classrooms), everything that players do
ultimately concerns the development of their own identity: who
they are. It’s why achievers achieve, explorers explore,
socializers socialize, and killers creep up from nowhere and
batter you with a stick.
You can’t design for it, because everything affects it; yet for the
same reason, you can’t not design for it—it touches everything
you do. It’s portable, so it’s beyond a designer’s reach—it can be
used across many virtual worlds48. It’s unquantifiable—you
can’t rate for “identity” the actions, objects, structures, or
anything else that’s programmed in. You can design for certain
expressions of identity, and you can design ways to channel
these expressions, but you can’t do so systematically. Identity
flowering is an inherent property of virtual worlds; if you
control it or repress it or subvert it, the changes you’d have to
make to do so would leave you with something that was no
longer a virtual world.
Okay, you’ve let me babble on about this for a couple of
paragraphs, but enough is enough. Ask a dozen players why
they play virtual worlds, and you’d be lucky if even one gave an
answer that even hinted at “the celebration of identity.” They
usually reply in terms that categorize them as being an
48 And beyond. Many players like to write fiction about their characters, for
example.
Players 213
achiever, explorer, socializer, or killer (which is how I derived
those types in the first place). To convince you that identity
really is the fundamental, critical, absolutely core point of
virtual worlds, I’m going to have to provide some evidence.
Fair enough. Let’s start with some empirical observations.
Players of virtual worlds often notice that they behave
differently in the virtual world than they do in real life. They
may be more (or less) assertive, talkative, flirtatious,
argumentative, pensive, creative—the list just goes on. For
some people, the changes are more dramatic than for others,
but most players would concede that they do seem
to have a virtual personality that’s different from their real one.
Generally, they like their virtual personality more than their real
one, but not always. Reflecting on this difference will cause
them to make judgments about themselves, therefore their
personality (virtual or real) will either shift49 or the two will
remain in conflict until the issue is resolved.
Most players maintain several characters in a virtual world (if
that world allows it). Some may be for specific purposes (for
example mules, to do drudge work for the main character) and
others may be the result of failed experiments (“Hmm, so elven
thieves don’t really work”). There are often two or three, though,
that the player uses regularly, depending on their mood. If
they’re depressed, they may choose their dark, brooding magicuser; if they’re angry, they may choose their barbarian warrior
to let off some steam; if they’re wistful, perhaps their bard
would suit best. In these situations, the players are using their
various characters in the virtual world to work through their
real-life issues. They’ll grow as people because of it.
49 This is called slippage in psychology literature.
214 Chapter 3
Suppose you had poor social skills, and found a social
environment where this didn’t matter. Merely by interacting in
that environment, your skills would improve. In real life, you
might be shy and awkward, but if you found a place where wild
self-expression was not only permissible, but also positively
encouraged, you could suddenly bloom. In becoming
accustomed to this virtual personality, you might gain sufficient
confidence to be able to maintain it in real life. You wouldn’t
necessarily even have to think about it, it could just happen.
Wouldn’t that mean you’d developed as a person?
So, after those three cod-psychology examples we can probably
agree that it’s possible— common, even—for people to exhibit
different behaviors in a virtual world and in reality. This was
noticed by academics early in research into virtual worlds. Amy
S. Bruckman’s groundbreaking paper on the subject50 was
published back in 1992.
What does this have to do with identity, though?
Well, in the examples I gave there is a separation between the
player and the character. This is immersion at the character
level. If it stays that way, the player isn’t really going to mature.
However, for virtual worlds it’s almost unavoidable that the
character and the player will tend toward each other. If you like
your virtual self, you’ll take on its characteristics; if you keep
mood characters, you’ll gradually stop playing all but one; the
social skills you acquire will become skills that you use.
Ultimately, you advance to the final level of immersion, where
50 Amy S. Bruckman, Identity Workshop: Emergent Social and Psychological
Phenomena in Text-Based Virtual Reality. MIT Media Laboratory, 1992.
ftp.cc.gatech.edu/pub/people/asb/papers/ identity-workshop.rtf.
Players 215
you and your character become one. One individual, one
persona: identity.
Okay, so players can create separate selves, and over time unify
the best aspects of them into a single identity. That doesn’t
mean it’s inevitable, though. This phenomenon of a separate
“online self” appears in many other computer-moderated
activities, from email to chat rooms to forum postings. Why
can’t they raise identity issues if virtual worlds can?
The answer is that they do, but nowhere near as well. Virtual
worlds, armed with a potent combination of environment and
fellow players that’s unavailable to other online applications, are
able to present people with a stream of challenges; an
individual’s response to each challenge helps define that
individual. The challenges of email, chat rooms and forum
postings are much narrower in scope, weaker in intensity and
rarer in frequency.
This reaction to challenges is how most identity development
occurs. Although mood characters and the like make good, neat,
psychology parcels to show to cynics, they’re overt; the main
identity action is covert. Things happen, which present
challenges; your reaction to these causes you to acquire
insights, which in turn lead to minor readjustments in your
understanding of yourself (that is, your identity). Examples:
Dealing with responsibility, relationships, unfairness,
success/failure, betrayal, strangers, and so on.
These aren’t personality change issues. It’s not that you stop
being a shy loner and are suddenly compelled to transform into
an outgoing extrovert; rather, it’s that you were always an
extrovert, you just didn’t realize it. The virtual world lets you try
being one, and your opinion of yourself changes as a result of
how it works out. If you weren’t an extrovert at heart, then you
wouldn’t make the change; the extrovert virtual you would drift
216 Chapter 3
toward the introvert real you, rather than the reverse. It can’t
make you something you aren’t.
Virtual worlds enable you to find out who you are by letting you
be who you want to be.
Not everyone necessarily wants to find out who they are, of
course. Others do, but don’t like it when they learn the answer51
.
Not everyone wants to change, and not everyone likes
challenges. Some people may thus be attracted to virtual worlds
by the promise of identity freedom, but become increasingly
angry and frustrated—unable to leave, but unwilling to do what
is necessary to stay. It’s particularly sad when an individual
takes a harsh lesson but doesn’t learn anything—continually
acting out rather than working through a difficulty. Fortunately,
this doesn’t happen very often, but when it does it can be
somewhat disruptive.
Incidentally, if you are at all interested in the psychological
and/or psychotherapeutic value of virtual worlds, you should
look at Life on the Screen52, by Sherry Turkle (if you haven’t
already). Chapter 7, “Toward a Critical Aesthetic,” in particular
is directly relevant to the subject, and includes a number of
interesting case studies.
So, to summarize: For the great majority of players, virtual
worlds encourage them to present different sides of themselves
in a safe environment; challenges arise in the virtual world
which enable them to reflect (consciously or otherwise) on their
responses to those challenges, which causes them to develop a
greater understanding of themselves; over time, this leads to a
51 Some people really are total jerks.
52 Sherry Turkle, Life on the Screen. New York, Simon & Schuster, 1995.
Players 217
gradual merging of the virtual side and the real side, as the
player becomes increasingly attuned to their persona.
The persona level of immersion isn’t the end of the journey.
You’ve reached the top of a hill, but there may be another one
that’s higher: There may be a better you. Thus, people will
always create new characters and try out new ways of selfexpression. Besides, self-affirmation is good, too.
Hey, you’re an Eastern mystic, and you didn’t even know!
Identity and Identification
Players play virtual worlds in order to be themselves.
Well, perhaps not quite all of them do, but it’s true of those who
play for fun. Even in game worlds, some people will be there for
specialist reasons (play-testing, customer service, spying from
some competing game); none of these individuals would
necessarily have any inclination to become immersed, and those
that do would be professional about it. There will also be a few
people who are in the process of “getting” what a virtual world
is about; these will mainly be insufficiently immersed newbies,
but occasionally there are individuals who never “get” what
virtual worlds are about but play nevertheless (generally, to the
irritation of everyone else). Most of the players will be there
because of the freedom to be themselves that the virtual world
offers, though.
People who don’t play virtual worlds (but have tried them) find
other ways to be themselves. It has been argued that one of the
reasons more men play virtual worlds than women could be
because in modern society men have less opportunity to
218 Chapter 3
experiment with their identities in real life53. For players,
though, virtual worlds afford an unmatched ability simply to be.
Let’s look at this a little more analytically, and see if there’s
anything that designers can do to make this salute to identity
any easier.
We should begin by noting that identity is not the same as
identification, although the two are related. Identification is the
modeling of the self on some ideal. For players of virtual worlds
who might sense the possibilities of identity exploration
without really understanding how to invoke it, the provision of
ideals can help. This is why many virtual worlds have a class
system.
The idea is that the individual takes on board those aspects that
define the ideal, because these are what the individual admires.
They provide a target—something to shoot for. If a proposed
role model exhibits other features that conflict with an
individual’s sense of self, that role model is not suitable as an
ideal. It’s therefore easier to identify with an abstraction rather
than something concrete, because abstractions present fewer
features; you can flesh out what isn’t mentioned without hitting
contradictions.
This would imply that the lower an ideal’s detail, the better.
Sure enough, many virtual worlds have dozens of classes for
players to peruse. The disadvantage of this approach is that the
fewer qualities an ideal presents, the less rounded it is, and
therefore the flatter it makes those people who aspire to it seem.
An ideal with a single outstanding feature leads to players who
are defined by that single outstanding feature, that is, who are
one-dimensional. One-dimensional characters don’t make for
53 How many men in make-up have you seen today?
Players 219
riveting movies, and neither do they make for enthralling
virtual worlds. Many virtual worlds with character classes
therefore also have character races, to provide another
dimension (although there tend to be specific class/race
combinations that work better than others, so in practice the
choice isn’t quite as wide as it may appear).
Whereas identification is about projecting your self-image onto
some ideal, identity is about projecting it onto yourself. The
former can help the latter, but has neither its extent nor its
fidelity. If it goes too far, it can be counter-productive.
Identification is allowing yourself to be defined by an image54; in
excess, it can therefore lead to a conflict between personal
identity and that perceived of the ideal. A painting doesn’t
change, but an artist must. If a virtual world commits a player
to identifying with a fixed set of ideals, there will be problems
when those ideals are no longer appropriate.
Identity is a product of thought, manifested by expression
(actions, words). It has to be flexible, so it can wander, focus, be
reborn. It also has to be true. A false image may be projected for
the benefit of other people, as a way to influence them;
individuals can’t lie for long to themselves, though—that is, if
they can see themselves. In the real world, this can be difficult.
Virtual worlds provide people with a mirror. In a virtual world,
you can see yourself. You only see what you show to the mirror,
which may not be what everyone else sees, but it’s more than
enough. With identity, the question is how much you like your
reflection; with identification, it’s how much you believe it.
54 Do people who wear the same make-up every day do so because of what
other people think about them, or because of what they think about
themselves?
220 Chapter 3
Virtual world designers have some control over this. They get to
provide the ideals; they get to make the mirror. As I said earlier,
though, they can’t do this systematically. You can’t draw a
graph with an “identity” axis and place players at various places
along it. The best you can do is to assess the likely consequences
of their progression to greater maturity. To do that, you need to
know the course that progression takes.
Progression
I mentioned earlier the main sequence that charts player type
drift. This gets its name from the main sequence of star
development used in cosmology55. Players typically start off
testing the immediate bounds on their behavior (killer) then
begin to acquire knowledge of their environment (explorer);
following this, they apply their knowledge (achiever), in the
course of which they forge bonds with other players; finally,
they retire from this and spend their time chatting with their
friends (socializer).
Sometimes, people stay in one area. Long-term killers will often
be youngsters who have feelings of inferiority56 and need
constantly to validate their worth to themselves. Long-term
explorers know they have the ability to apply their knowledge,
and feel no urge to demonstrate the fact to others. That said, a
good many people follow the main sequence the whole way.
There’s a flaw in this argument, though. As people grow in
virtual worlds, their real selves and their virtual selves gradually
become one. Because socializer is the last step on the main
55 The Hertzsprung-Russel diagram: Map absolute visual magnitude against
spectral. The main sequence, on which most stable stars lie, runs roughly
diagonally from high luminosity/low temperature to low luminosity/high
temperature.
56 “Ha! You call that an inferiority complex?!”
Players 221
sequence, all socializers should be immersed to persona level.
They’re not. You can start as a socializer, socializing effectively
while being barely immersed to avatar level. Your development
is due to social challenges rather than environmental ones. This
rather undermines the use of player types in predicting the
effects of growing maturity, doesn’t it?
As it stands, yes, it does. There is, however, an interesting
solution.
My original work for Hearts, Clubs, Diamonds, Spades: Players
Who Suit MUDs evolved from summarizing a discussion among
the players of MUD2 that ran from November 1989 to May 1990.
The paper as finally presented concerned only the actions and
interactions between mortals (that is, normal players); it did not
make particular reference to wizzes (that is, players trusted with
administration powers—this is MUD2’s elder game). Wizzes57
had already played the game in its entirety, as that was the
qualification to be a wiz; therefore, they were on the whole no
longer concerned with the virtual world per se, just in its
inhabitants. There were a few explorers who made wiz better to
aid their exploring, and a few achievers who regarded building
as a competitive act; the majority, though, were either
socializers or killers.
In separating wizzes from mortals, I noticed that there were
some very distinct behavioral differences between the wizzes
themselves. Wizzes were keen to articulate their beliefs about
what they and their peers should and should not do to manage
the game, as there were particularly strong conflicts between
certain groups. Therefore, at the same time I constructed the
player interest graph (refer to Figure 3.1) for mortals, I
constructed a similar one for wizzes. The players/world axis was
57 The term is gender non-specific, meaning “wizards and witches.”
222 Chapter 3
not relevant here (because nearly all wizzes were at the players
side); in its stead was a different axis that rated the degree to
which wizzes did things in an explicit or implicit58 fashion.
Explicit wizzes favored the known over the unknown, realism
over idealism, the overt over the covert, expectation over
surprise, and order over disorder.
Note that “explicit” here is meant in the general sense of the
word: leaving nothing implied. It’s not intended to have any
“explicit photographs” style overtones. In computer language
semantics, explicit means data, implicit means code; in AI
terms, explicit means knowledge, implicit means skills. That’s
how I mean it.
There were a number of conflicts suggested by this
implicit/explicit analysis, which led to some interesting
underlying dynamics (and alarming consequences for inter-wiz
balance). However, as the graph was specific to the relatively
small set of administrators in a game-oriented virtual world
that selected them by unusual means, I felt it would have
distracted from the main thrust of my player types model had I
presented it in my paper. I therefore left it out.
Perhaps, though, it doesn’t just apply to wizzes?
What would happen were we to incorporate this
implicit/explicit dimension59 into the basic player types model?
Specifically, would it help us differentiate between sub-types of
the player-oriented styles, killer, and socializer?
58 For MUD2-specific reasons to do with the nature of the wiz invisibility
command, the original axis labeling was open (explicit) and closed (implicit).
59 Readers of Michael Moorcock and players of D&D can use law/chaos if they
really must, but it’s not quite a match.
Players 223
Yes, it does60. We get:
• Politicians. Players who act in an open fashion on other
players. Whether you view them as inspired, visionary
leaders or interfering, self-serving busybodies depends on
how gullible or cynical you are.
• Networkers. Players who interact openly with other
players—even complete strangers—on any and all subjects.
Less charitably, gossips.
• Friends. Players who interact primarily with people they
have known a long time and with whom they have deep
bonds (often forged through adversity). They do not feel
bound by the conventional rules of interaction, because they
understand each other so well.
• Griefers. Bullies prepared to use force or other
unpleasantness to get their way or be noticed.
Figure 3.3 shows this as a graph.
60 Unsurprisingly, as obviously I wouldn’t have mentioned it otherwise.
224 Chapter 3
Figure 3.3 Players-oriented Player Interest Graph.
If this served only to clear up some of the confusion about the
different varieties of the killer type (griefers and politicians) it
would have done its job. However, it’s not quite a one-trick
pony.
What happens when a player-oriented newbie enters a virtual
world? The first issue many of them face is coming to terms
with the fact that they are part of a community. Some will
immediately comprehend the situation, but not everyone. Those
that don’t will objectify other players, treating them as
helpdesks, servants, gophers, and sources of experience points
or kit. The reaction of the other players to this approach will
cause all but the most mule-headed newbie socializer to
Players 225
understand fairly rapidly the social mechanics of the world.
They can then move on to the business of getting to know
people. To make friends with someone, you need to meet them,
which means you have to network. Some people you won’t like,
and some won’t like you, but after a while you’ll find you hang
out with the same, relatively small group of people most of the
time and be acquainted with many more.
Your group will almost inevitably experience conflicts, both
internal and external. Perhaps several people want to be leader,
or don’t like where the leader is taking them. The group may
grow too large, or too small, or otherwise become dysfunctional.
Environmental changes could trigger problems—a change in
the way the virtual world works, for example, or a loss of group
status. Ultimately, everyone in the group has a view and will at
least some of the time want to impose it on the other
members—even if it’s only as a form of self-defense. The trials
that result put big stresses on relationships, some of which may
break down irrevocably. Eventually, though, players will come
through with a fuller understanding of themselves and of their
friends. Their earlier ties will have been strengthened, and they
will at last be able to settle down and appreciate one another.
What we have here is a main sequence for socializers: griefer to
networker to politician to friend. Drawn on the graph61, it’s the
same reverse-alpha shape as the standard main sequence, which
is nice. Back in two dimensions, it would be killer to socializer to
killer to socializer, but it’s less obvious what’s happening when
flattened that way.
At this point, we can see where F. Randall Farmer’s Path to
Ascension fits in. This is perhaps unsurprising, given that
Habitat was a socializer-centric system. Ignoring the “non61 For the record, this also works on the original, wiz-specific graph.
226 Chapter 3
player” caretaker and geek god roles: Motivators map onto
politicians; actives and passives both map onto networker
(actives being more immersed than passives)62
.
So, having added an extra dimension, the obvious question to
ask next is: What—if anything—does adding an extra
dimension buy us concerning the world-oriented players
(achievers and explorers)?
Well, the subdivisions are relatively easy to construct:
• Planners. Organized achievers, who decide what they
want to do then go off and do it.
• Scientists. Explorers who experiment in a thorough,
methodical fashion.
• Hackers63. Explorers whose understanding of the virtual
world is such that they can proceed purely by intuition.
• Opportunists. Achievers who go where their fancy takes
them.
Figure 3.4 shows the resulting 3D graph.
62 This suggests that at least in some cases, refining the model to account for
gradations of immersion may be useful.
63 This is in the traditional sense of the word, not the break-into-yourcomputer-and-erase-your-data one.
Players 227
Figure 3.4 3D Player Interest Graph.
Whether this is of tremendous use is another matter, of
course64. Instead of four player types, we now have eight:
opportunists, planners, politicians, griefers, hackers, scientists,
networkers, and friends. The conflicts between some of the
eight are meaningful (for example griefers versus planners), but
for others the old types work just as well and are better at
encapsulation (for example socializers versus achievers).
64 Tools are only objects if they have no use. What’s more, it’s far better if the
tool is designed to fit the problem than if the problem is designed to fit the
tool. I don’t want to be a man with a hammer looking for things I can nail.
228 Chapter 3
If having more categories doesn’t deliver more tools for
designers, there’s little point in designers using them. Mere
categorization doesn’t itself guarantee utility, even if it can be
shown to be inclusive (as this one can) and is easy to validate
empirically (as this one is). After all, adding a dimension for the
time of the year in which a player was born would be inclusive
and verifiable, but designers would find it of very little general
efficacy65
.
Concerning our current discussion on player type progression,
though, the addition of an extra dimension does have an effect
for world-oriented players: It gives another sequence—
opportunist to scientist to planner to hacker. We also can
“unflatten” the main sequence (killer to explorer to achiever to
socializer) from 2D into 3D, giving griefer to scientist to planner
to friend. Tempting though it is to look for a sequence matching
this of opportunist to networker to politician to hacker, this
can’t be validated empirically: People simply don’t follow that
career path. However, there is a minor fourth sequence, for
opportunist achievers who learn by networking rather than by
experimentation. This gives us:
• Griefer to scientist to planner to friend (main sequence)
• Opportunist to networker to planner to friend (minor
sequence)
• Griefer to networker to politician to friend (main
socializer sequence)
• Opportunist to scientist to planner to hacker (main
explorer sequence)
At last we’re getting close to a model good enough to use for
something. If designers can assess how players are likely to
65 Sorry to break the bad news to any astrologers among you.
Players 229
mature, they can account for their progress in their game
designs. We’re not quite there yet, though.
Development Tracks
The thing is, those sequences overlap. People can switch paths,
if they have some moment of epiphany. Someone could go
griefer to scientist (main sequence) to planner to hacker
(explorer sequence). They could go opportunist to networker
(minor sequence) to politician to friend (socializer sequence).
They’ll tend to keep to whatever path they began on, but
sometimes they decide to go a different way when they meet a
fork in the road66. Writing the sequences out linearly gives
Figure 3.5.
Figure 3.5 Player development tracks.
From Figure 3.5, we can make a number of observations. It’s
immediately apparent that there’s an oddity with politicians.
Although people can become planners by applying knowledge
they learned themselves (as scientists) or from others (by
networking), for politicians only networking works as a
qualification. Similarly, although planners can go on to become
friends (forged through adversity) or hackers (understanding
the world almost spiritually), politicians only ever go on to
66 Alternatively, they could completely hit a wall and bounce right back to the
beginning again. Instead of developing in the face of a crisis, they could, for
example, regress to some vengeful griefer state. This is, needless to say, not
really what we want to see happening.
230 Chapter 3
become friends. Designers can therefore be fairly confident that
their world’s politician-friendly features should not be deeply
hard-coded (because no one who experiments with them is
going to use them) and that politicians should not be given too
much ability to affect the physical structure of the world
(because they’re never going to be attuned to it).
Another point that the development tracks show is that the
elder game67 (that is, what they do having played through the
virtual world) would work best if it aimed at providing tools for
people to tinker with the world or to enjoy one another’s
company. Many textual worlds allow players to become builders
once they’ve “won”; others provide private gathering places
where players can sit and discuss the issues of the day. It’s
certainly possible to have an elder game of a different kind, for
example, by allowing players to repeat their time as a planner or
politician in a different manner, but it’s less satisfactory for
individuals that way68. Only if the elder game is radically
different from what went before will players begin development
from scratch again.
Designers can take advantage of the fact that immersion is
related to how far a player has proceeded in their development.
Most networkers will not be deeply immersed, for example,
therefore a designer could argue that it’s okay to put in
immersion-breaking communication systems that facilitate
networking. Most planners are immersed, therefore a designer
might decide that statistical information regarding the
operation of the virtual world is not available from within it:
Players might know from a web site that their sword is a
67 This is another one of those terms that has come from game-oriented
virtual worlds that doesn’t really have a non-game equivalent.
68 This isn’t to say it wouldn’t be better for the health of the virtual world
itself, of course.
Players 231
hackmaster +12, but when they bring it up on their inventory
the number is represented descriptively or graphically instead.
As a more general comment, Figure 3.5 shows that identity
paths progress in the same way; furthermore, this links directly
to the 3D player interest graph (refer to Figure 3.4). The original
2D player interest graph (refer to Figure 3.1) is the same as the
3D graph (refer to Figure 3.4) with the implicit/explicit axis
removed. If we take out the players/world axis instead, we get
Figure 3.6.
Figure 3.6 Flattened Player Interest Graph.
232 Chapter 3
The player type labels for Figure 3.6 aren’t particularly
important; more interesting is how players change from one to
the next.
When a player arrives in a completely new situation, they have
to act on instinct— there’s little else they can do. A player’s first
aim is to determine the parameters that govern what they can
do, which means trying everything he can think of to discover
what basic actions are available. Having bootstrapped to a level
where the player can reliably perform individual “primitive”
actions, the next thing to do is to go about discovering
sequences and combinations of these actions. The player does
this methodically in a data-gathering phase, until he becomes
thoroughly acquainted with the options available to them.
Following this, the player applies what they have learned
intensely, until eventually mastering it and it becomes second
nature.
Baby arrives in the world. Baby flails about, until baby realizes
how to move its legs, its arms, its feet, and its hands. Baby
combines individual movements into sequences, some of which
work and some of which don’t. Baby sits up. Baby toddles. Baby
toddles more and more, until eventually baby can walk and run.
Now, for baby, running is effectively a primitive action.
Locate, discover, apply, internalize. From acting on instinct,
acquire knowledge, use that knowledge, and become able to
interact on instinct.
I mention this feature of the 3D Player Interest Graph only to
show how the player development tracks (refer to Figure 3.5) fit
into the overall scheme. In practice, the tracks themselves are of
more use to designers than the flattened graph (refer to Figure
3.6), although we’ll see later that there’s an interesting analogy
that can be drawn from it.
Players 233
There remains the question as to whether flattening the graph
by removing the acting/interacting axis gives a useful new
perspective, but it’s easily answered: No, it doesn’t. This may
indicate that there are better choices for axes available which
have yet to be discovered.
With that, we reach the end of this discussion of identity. There
are some follow-up topics we need to look at, but we’re done
with the central issue. The question might now be asked: Was it
worth it? Although this analysis has produced some results of
tangible use to designers, has it all really been necessary? Isn’t it,
beneath the surface, just a lot of pseudo-psychological
nonsense? What has it to do with design?
Directly, it contributes only in a few areas. Indirectly, it
pervades everything. If you don’t understand the nature of what
you’re designing, how can you design it?
People play virtual worlds to celebrate their identity. Designers
must understand that. It’s a freedom thing.
Anonymity
Good simulations allow people to do whatever they want to do;
good virtual worlds allow people to be whatever they want to
be69
.
Anonymity is itself a neutral concept: You can use it for good or
for evil. In practice, someone has to know who you really are, so
you can be called to account should you cause pandemonium. In
69 Contrast not-so-good virtual worlds, where you can be whatever the
designers want you to be.
234 Chapter 3
virtual worlds, this will be the administrators; other players
don’t get proof of who you are unless (through your behavior)
you give it to them.
Reduced consequences for actions makes for the disinhibition
that so characterizes virtual worlds. Anonymity is central to
this, because only through anonymity do people have the
freedom to change. If you make a mistake in the virtual world,
you can restart; it’s okay to experiment, to take risks. However,
if a real-world friend finds out about some virtual-world
mistake, restarting will not erase it. Contact with reality
collapses virtual identity like observation does a quantum wave.
Life with a Backspace
Starting a new character is like backspacing over your identity
mistakes and retyping them a different way. It’s only possible in
virtual worlds70
.
Anonymity separates the real you from the virtual you. This has
three effects:
• People in the virtual world won’t prejudge you on
superficialities.
• Your real-world friends won’t judge you by your virtualworld actions.
• Your virtual-world friends won’t judge you by your realworld actions.
Without anonymity, your virtual actions have real-world effects
and vice versa. If no one knows you’re the U.S. president, you can
be yourself; if they do, you’re back to being the U.S. president.
70 And witness protection schemes.
Players 235
It doesn’t usually take long for newbies to realize that
anonymity means they can restart if they screw up. It’s pretty
obvious. However, in practice it’s not actually as important as
people often think. The longer you play a character, the more
attached to it you become, and the more people come to know
that character. You soon reach the stage where you’ve invested
so much in that character that if you do screw up you would be
very reluctant to throw it all away. Instead, you ride out the
storm (and are perhaps a better person because of it).
This can lead to an extra level of anonymity. If you decided to
create a second character, you might not want it to be
associated with either your real self or your first virtual self.
Anonymity lets you branch. Thus, we should think of
anonymity71 as acting as a buffer between all your separate
identities, not just the real and the virtual. When you start a
new identity, your primary concern is to keep the old identities
intact and separate. Therefore, the main advantage of
anonymity is not that your new friends won’t find out about
your other selves; rather it’s that your other friends won’t find
out about your new self. It can be the other way round (for
newbies and U.S. presidents), but mostly it isn’t. The virtual girl
who doesn’t want her friends to know she’s a real-life guy has
less to lose than the real-life guy who doesn’t want his friends to
know he’s a virtual girl72
.
It turns out that maintaining separate identities in the same
virtual world can be quite difficult. Experienced Wild West
telegraph operators were able to tell which of the other
operators on their line they were communicating with from
71 Because virtual identities are named and can be referenced, the term
pseudonymity is preferred by some researchers in this context.
72 As people spend more and more of their time in virtual worlds, this could
change. When they spend most of it there (as in True Names, for example),
people may want to protect their real-world identities the most.
236 Chapter 3
nuances in the way they tapped out the Morse code73; it’s
unsurprising, therefore, that players in virtual worlds can often
detect other players by subtleties in the way they act and speak.
If you always misspell a particular word, for example, people will
notice. This means that anonymity across characters can’t
always be relied on. There are ways to succeed, which I’ll discuss
a little later; on the whole, though, people who feel they need
anonymity should switch to either a different virtual world or a
different incarnation of the same one.
An interesting side issue here is that although players will often
mature quicker if they regularly start up new characters, most
of them are reluctant to do so because of the time they have
invested in their old ones. They therefore find themselves facing
the same challenges as before, responding in the same ways,
and generally not getting much out of the experience. Were
they occasionally forced to change character (for example, by its
erasing following virtual death), would this not perhaps lead to
greater enjoyment for them in the long term? Probably, yes;
however, if they knew that characters could die dead-dead after
months of playing time, players perhaps wouldn’t sign up for a
virtual world in the first place. This is the great tragedy of
persona death in virtual worlds, which causes more problems
than any other for designers. It is discussed in considerable
depth later in this book.
Returning to the topic of anonymity, then: What are the
implications of all this on virtual world design?
Well firstly, a certain degree of anonymity must be guaranteed.
Clearly, the live team needs access to the real-world details
associated with a character, but this information should be
considered private. If there is any way that a regular player can
73 Their styles were known as their “signatures.”
Players 237
uniquely identify another regular player without the latter’s
permission, it’s not good. You might think that associating email
addresses with every character is beneficial for community
development, but that’s not how the majority of players will see
it.
Secondly, it shouldn’t go too far. People want to have separate
identities, not no identity. If every character looked the same,
that would lead to anonymity. If you can’t tell people apart,
everyone could be anyone. Identities should be constructible to
as great (or shallow) a level of detail that a player wants.
Anonymity is relative, between characters; it isn’t absolute for
individual characters.
Finally, players should be able to start up new characters with
relative ease. Players won’t grow if they can’t occasionally
experiment, and they’ll eventually lose faith in the virtual world
unless they can start afresh occasionally. This does not mean
that they should be offered new accounts at a cheaper rate;
rather, there should be several slots on their existing account so
they can maintain several characters simultaneously (in
practice, the absolute minimum is three, but five is normally
enough for most people).
Well, that’s the traditional point of view.
There is another argument that says players should only have
one account with only one character on it. In game worlds at
least, most people use secondary characters either as mules
(which screws up game balance) or as griefers (so they can act
like jerks without fear of reprisal). In both instances, the virtual
world would be better off without them. Furthermore, in a
commercial setting you can check names, addresses, credit card
numbers, and computer registry settings to ensure that people
238 Chapter 3
don’t simply buy a second account to use for their mule or
griefer activities74
.
This is the approach adopted by Star Wars Galaxies (although
their hands were somewhat tied by the fact that the huge
amount of data they store for each character is such that it
would exceed their database’s capabilities to allow more than
one character per account—well, that’s the official line anyway).
As it happens, none of these are particularly thorny issues for
designers (although the number of characters per account may
yet become so). The immediate problem with anonymity is
practical rather than theoretical: It must be possible for
characters to be referenced. This means they need a name. In a
virtual world with half a million players, that’s a lot of names.
The Name Problem
In a virtual world, you are represented by, represent, or are an
individual. The world fiction may pretend otherwise, for
example, by allowing hive minds (for example, ant nests) or
shared-mind couples (for example, Tweedledum and
Tweedledee), but these are mere conceits. You are associated
with a single, sentient game object: your character75. So that
people can refer to your character in conversation and
commands, that character must have a label; in other words, a
name.
74 CompuServe allowed one character per account on British Legends. Some
players therefore accumulated several accounts—a dozen or more in some
cases—so they could have multiple characters in the game. Needless to say,
these accounts did not come at a cheaper rate, either.
75 Or avatar or persona, but these generally lose out to character in
discussions for which immersion is not an issue.
Players 239
MUD1 allowed players to have the same names, as long as they
weren’t logged on at the same time. This rapidly led to problems
of mistaken identity (and, to a lesser extent, impersonation).
Permitting only one person with a particular name to be in the
virtual world at any one time was no help: Players could find
themselves locked out that way. The solution adopted was to
allow only one instance of any name in the entire virtual world.
There were still occasional problems when a character was
killed and someone stole its name before the original player had
recovered enough to return, but these were only isolated
incidents that could be handled by administrators on a case-bycase basis.
On the whole, this is how virtual worlds are still designed today.
There are implementational reasons why two characters76 with
the same name should not be allowed into a virtual world at the
same time (it makes parsing and communication so much
easier), and disallowing name clashes77 for offline characters,
too, is essentially a customer relations requirement (although
there are other benefits to do with helping engender a sense of
identity).
Virtual worlds with large numbers of players rapidly run out of
decent names. It’s not a problem that dogs only virtual worlds,
of course—it’s far worse for URLs, AOL account names, and
Hotmail email addresses—but that doesn’t mean it isn’t an
issue. The designers of Ultima Online anticipated that names
would be in short supply, so they took the decision to allow
them to be non-unique. To stop lock-outs, people with the same
name could both play at the same time. Impersonation and
communication evils ensued. Both were fixable while retaining
76 It’s actually stronger than this: No two objects should have the same name
(identifier).
77 Names don’t have to be exact to “clash,” just similar enough that at a glance
you could mistake one for another.
240 Chapter 3
non-unique names, but only with immersion-breaking
solutions. The graphical virtual worlds that immediately
followed did not make the same mistake, and used unique
names from the beginning.
This still meant that there was a shortage of supply, of course: If
you have 400,000 players, they need to have 400,000 names
(and more if they have multiple characters). An obvious
compromise is to limit uniqueness to server cluster (that is, to
an individual incarnation/shard). With 40 servers, players’
imaginations need only stump up 10,000 different names, which
is far more tractable. Sure, some other guy might be using your
name on a different server, but your friends are all on this one.
How to choose a name? Players identify more with their
characters if they get to choose the names themselves; name
selection is the first and arguably most important decision
concerning their virtual identity that a player can make. Giving
them a free hand, though, can be tiresomely fiction-breaking
(Robinhood the elf is here). It’s a problem: Randomly select any
virtual world with a policy of free naming and the chances are
there will be someone called “Gandalf”—irrespective of the
genre.
One solution, hinted at previously, is to use a restrictive naming
policy. Administrators vet prospective names. This is practical
and very effective in virtual worlds with strong role-playing
elements, because in explaining why their character has the
name it does, a player must necessarily flesh out that character.
It’s a barrier to entry, though: If someone tries to play your
virtual world and finds there’s a 10-minute delay while you okay
the character name, they’ll go somewhere else that doesn’t have
a 10-minute delay. It’s also way too expensive to implement for
virtual worlds that have thousands of newbies arriving every
day.
Players 241
A way to preserve an element of choice, while limiting the
freedom to choose something unfortunate as a name, is to use
name lists. The idea is to present players with a list of, say, 10 or
20 available names, and let them pick which one they want. If
none of them really suit, another list can perhaps be presented,
until all the options are exhausted. Players could still be given
the option to enter a freeform name and wait for it to be vetted,
but they wouldn’t have to do so.
There are a number of ways that name lists can be generated.
The most obvious one is to do it randomly. This has to be good
to work: EverQuest tried it, but it wasn’t and it didn’t.
Another way is to use the context of the virtual world to present
possibilities. This is used sometimes in pencil-and-paper roleplaying games. The idea is that the character’s name is built up
from syllables that have a meaning in some ancient language
supposedly spoken by the character’s people. A typical
arrangement is to have an opening syllable, one or more middle
syllables, and a closing syllable. An elf might thus choose “Ardla-shi-sa” meaning “tree-of-silent-spirit,” whereas a dwarf
(using a different set of syllables and ostensible meanings)
might pick “Khad-rak-uz” meaning “Stone-strongbeard.” These
are fun for designers to design and for players to play with, but
you have to be careful—I once managed to get Fu-qu-az-ole out
of one of these.
Using such pseudo-cultural definitions for names, it’s possible
to re-introduce a modicum of non-unique naming. If players are
given a surname based on their character’s race/class/gender/
whatever, then they might be able to choose the same first name
as someone else with a different surname. If Urk Wolfhead and
Urk Sharpspear play at the same time, either can be referred to
as Urk by other members of their tribe or by people in the same
general location as they. Only when someone from a different
tribe wants to reference one rather than the other does the
242 Chapter 3
surname also have to be used (adjectivally). This is a neat
solution that allows for some degree of choice while preserving
the decorum of the virtual world.
Names are referents, but they are not the only ones. Hey, you
know that charismatic, short, French general who conquered
half of Europe in the early 1800s? Well yes, of course you do—it
was Napoleon Bonaparte. I didn’t have to give you his name
before you knew who he was, though, did I78? There is an
argument that virtual worlds should allow this kind of relative
description for characters, and that it should be preferred until
you’ve actually been introduced to someone (or told who they
are by someone who already “knows”). The rationale for this is
that in the real world people don’t walk about with their names
tattooed to their foreheads, and therefore neither should
characters in virtual worlds. The counter argument is that
having to refer to someone as “The Tall Stranger” the whole
time gets in the way of interactions—even if it eventually
encourages people to interact by asking each other their names.
As with many real-versus-virtual arguments, both sides have a
point, and it’s ultimately up to designers to decide how they
want to handle the situation in their own virtual world. Most of
them go with the see-the-names approach, because it’s easier on
newbies. If people complain, they can always produce some
fiction to explain it away (“All player characters are by definition
heroic, therefore they’re also famous, therefore everyone knows
who everyone else is already”).
Relative names illustrate a point that game designers often
forget: Names are owned by an individual, but used by everyone
else. If “The Tall Stranger” won’t tell me his name, I may just
decide to call him Lanky: I can invent names for other people. In
MUD1, killers would give themselves hard-to-type names like
78 If I did, you should have paid more attention in history class.
Players 243
Mmnmnnmn so that people would have a hard time casting
spells on them, stealing goodies from them, and so on. I got
round this by using pronouns, although this was not itself
without problems. In particular, you might type something like
“sleep him” then just as you were hitting return a friend would
appear and change the binding for “him.” MUD2 added the
ability to create synonyms for players and objects, so that once
you (or anyone else) had typed “syn Mmnmnnmn as “Mm,” you
could thereafter refer to Mmnmnnmn as Mm.
Why stop there, though? Why not allow players to annotate one
another? Most people see, “Jay says, ‘hello’”; you see, “Jay the
boring creep says, ‘hello’.”
This raises the issue of how players annotate themselves.
Image
Traditionally, virtual worlds make a distinction between stats
(short for “statistics”) and knowledge. Stats are what characters
have (strength, dexterity, magic points, and so on); knowledge is
what players have (how to bring down a dragon, the route to the
citadel, that player B is an idiot, and so on). The virtual world
knows everything about stats and nothing about knowledge; for
this reason, the terms tangibles and intangibles are used when
referring to attributes of characters79 as opposed to attributes
of players. A player’s knowledge of tangibles is itself intangible,
of course.
Only tangibles are meaningful to the virtual world, but both
tangibles and intangibles are meaningful to players. Virtual
worlds generally have no way even to know that player A thinks
player B is an idiot, let alone to model the fact. Players, however,
79 These terms extend to the virtual world in general (as described in Chapter
1).
244 Chapter 3
do like to know this stuff, and are excellent at assimilating it.
Many virtual worlds therefore provide what are essentially
bookkeeping facilities for players, wound into their own context
to maintain a degree of immersion. However, they don’t actually
use any of it to introduce goals for the players—they have no
access to the content of the information, just to its form. There
is therefore no gameplay reason why a player should be able to
make a private annotation to another player’s character; it just
adds to their enjoyment.
The most important intangible is a character’s name. Unless the
name is constructed from components that the virtual world
knows about, it has absolutely no handle on what a name might
“mean.” Players will hazard a guess that Cupcake and Hardcore
might have different personalities, but the virtual world doesn’t
know. Names that are names in real-life are especially potent:
Anyone picking such a name has some reason for doing so
(typically to do with role-playing or real-life self-image). There
are plenty of other intangibles, however. It costs a virtual world
practically nothing to allow characters to have different color
clothes, hair, weapons, and so on, but it allows people to
individualize themselves and make personal statements. This is
made easier by the fact that these are recognizably intangible: At
character-creation time, players aren’t going to worry about the
gameplay effect of having blue eyes, whereas they might for
having a particular weapon or skill. They can concentrate on
their image. Purists often sneer at such distractions from what
a virtual world is “about.” Why would anyone in their right mind
want to wear a suit of crimson armor if there are cheaper
regulation gray ones that offer a better defense? Shouldn’t
designers be investing their time in extending gameplay rather
than adding yet more eye candy? Some designers do go
overboard in this regard, it’s true, but then some non-gameplay
features can be absolutely critical. Strictly speaking, for
example, communication between players is rarely necessary
Players 245
for gameplay reasons, yet take it away and you don’t have a
virtual world.
That said, the purists do have a point in that although there’s no
reason why a suit of crimson armor should have any gameplay
differences from a regular suit of armor, there’s no reason for it
not to, either. If someone has gone to the trouble of collecting all
the various crimson parts (breastplate, helmet, gauntlets,
epaulettes, grieves, and so on), it doesn’t hurt to make the parts
or the suit as a whole give more protection against, say, fire
than a standard-issue suit; what’s more, it makes it a little more
interesting for achiever types. Even someone who is wearing it
only because it makes them look good might feel more satisfied
if they can convince themselves there is a “legitimate” gameplay
reason for sporting it80. Note that this does not apply for
customizations that players pay for. There is money to be made
in selling players one-off character modifications or pieces of
customized kit, but only if it doesn’t affect gameplay. It’s okay to
replace a shield with a functionally equivalent one that looks
different, but it’s not okay to replace it with one that acts
different; otherwise, players who can’t afford to pay for such a
change will complain bitterly that they are disadvantaged81
.
Changes to intangibles are acceptable, but changes to tangibles
aren’t.
80 The same applies for role-playing props. If there’s a gun on the wall then
you ought to be able to fire it, even if laser weapons are better (apologies to
Chekhov).
81 There is an argument that this doesn’t apply for virtual worlds (or
particular instantiations of them) that are designed to use charging for
gameplay-significant objects from the beginning, advertising it as a main
feature of their business model. Of course, such worlds might not attract
many players, but hopefully they’ll get more money from each one. The main
standard-bearer of this approach is Achaea, where player expectation is so
geared up for it that they sell over half a million objects with tangible
properties a year—a phenomenal figure!
246 Chapter 3
Tangibles mainly interest achievers. It therefore comes as little
surprise to learn that intangibles are particularly important to
socializers. Therefore, designers who want to make their virtual
worlds attractive to socializers usually incorporate a number of
intangible-friendly tools in their worlds. As the celebration of
identity lies at the very core of virtual worlds, chief among these
will be the means made available to players for determining
their appearances in the virtual world.
The mechanisms for creating a basic character differ between
textual and graphical worlds, and the various options are
discussed fully in Chapter 5, “Life in the Virtual World.” For
now, though, we’ll assume that a new character has been
created: This new character is the player’s opening statement.
Customizations subsequent to it are modifications to that
statement and can say important things about the way
individuals view themselves. It is therefore in the best interests
of designers to make customization easy, so that people can go
where they want to go. The simplest method is to allow players
to make freeform notes about themselves that other players can
read as an adjunct to their name, but this is just one of three
general approaches available:
• Tangibles real for the virtual world. A character can remove
a suit of armor and give it to some other character who
will benefit from its protective attributes.
• Intangibles real for the virtual world. Your character can
dye their hair yellow and their hair will thenceforth be
reported as being yellow—even if hair color is
transparent to the mechanisms of the virtual world.
• Intangibles virtual for the virtual world. You can annotate
yourself with a publicly readable note that says dogs
adore you, but the virtual world would take no account of
it were you to encounter one.
Players 247
Players can therefore use a combination of methods to make
statements about—that is, to express—themselves. They can
write their description such that when someone looks at them
they’re told they see “a mighty knight;” they can wear some
impressive-looking armor that makes them appear like they’re
mighty knights; they can wear some top-of-the-range plate mail
that makes them be a mighty knight.
Freeform descriptions aren’t as important in graphical worlds
as they are in textual ones, because people go by looks in the
former and by “look” commands in the latter. Most MUDs have
freeform descriptions, and they’re considered the main way
(other than by name) to flesh out a character. There are two
problems, however, neither of which is immediately apparent.
The first is practical. On the face of it, it might be thought that
there could be trouble with hugely unsuitable descriptions82 if
people are allowed to depict their characters however they see
fit, but this is only the case for griefers (who are trouble
anyway).
Other players may inflate their status, but it’s easy to spot and
only makes the perpetrator look foolish (well, not quite “only”—
it spoils immersion for others, too). No, the main problem with
the content of personal descriptions is that they are often either
touchingly illiterate or irredeemably clichéd. There may be a
thousand ways to say that a character is tall, dark, and
mysterious, but if every male character you meet is basically
tall, dark, and mysterious then they all kind of merge into one.
They even have eyes that seem to pierce your very soul the
82 If they’re descriptions at all—web site addresses sometimes feature, for
example.
248 Chapter 3
same way83. Female characters are green-eyed, flame-haired,
pale-skinned beauties who move with the catlike grace of a
dancer while wielding matching swords. Oh, and they have
heaving breasts, too. There must be a factory somewhere
manufacturing them.
The second problem is less easy to fix by taking someone aside
and having a quiet word. The thing is, it’s an act of will to
change a description. The player may change, but unless they
notice it their character’s description won’t. Even if it does,
there are limits; “tall, dark, and mysterious” may mean a player
feels out of place and misunderstood yet possessing of hidden
depths, but if they later feel at home, at ease, and gregarious,
how do they change their description to reflect that? Their
character shrank a few inches and went blond overnight?
Worse, will they even effect a change if every time they meet
someone new they’re treated like they were tall, dark, and
mysterious? Freeform descriptions can anchor players too
much; in graphical worlds, the same applies to their character’s
visual appearance. I didn’t implement character descriptions in
MUD1 precisely for this reason: Players can explore their
identities more freely if they aren’t tied to some image84
.
There are two basic mechanisms for getting around this.
83 Which can still happen when they’re asleep, unless the virtual world
provides facilities to switch descriptions depending on character states,
which most don’t.
84 This is an example of where virtual world designers don’t always
understand their virtual world’s design. Why do most textual worlds have
free-form descriptions in them nowadays? Well, it’s because someone way
back when added the facility to an ancestor world and they’ve simply
inherited it. Why was it added in the first place? Was it because the designer
who did it knew what they were doing or because they didn’t know what
their own “parent” world’s designer was doing? In either case, how can the
designers of today’s worlds be sure it’s the right thing for their world? How
many of them even consider that the feature might be optional?
Players 249
The first one is to have characters die occasionally, so players
have to create new ones. This gives players the opportunity for
some redefinition. Persona death has other implications,
however, so this is not necessarily an option for most designers.
The other approach is profiling. The idea here is that characters
have computer-generated descriptions based on their actions.
It’s not as expressive as freeform text you’ve written yourself,
but at least it gets updated. Its most basic form is to tag a
character’s name by some epithet based on some combination
of that character’s level of experience, class, race, and gender:
“Felice the heroine” rather than just plain “Felice.” Special titles
and epithets, for example “Felice the giant-killing heroine,” can
be added for particularly exemplary deeds, either automatically
or by admiring administrators.
Longer biographies can be built up separately, for anyone to
access if they want to know more about a character’s actual
deeds. This allows people to form an opinion about a character,
which is particularly useful in virtual worlds where characters
never really “die.” The half-life of these descriptions should
depend on their importance. “Felice vanquished the maiden and
saved the dragon” might be a big deal for a relative newbie, but
not worth a mention after a couple of weeks. “Felice beat seven
kinds of hell out of Tommy and took his shoes” would probably
hang around to stain Felice’s reputation for somewhat longer.
Profiling also can be used as a more general tool to provide
information for other parts of the system. For example, if a
group of players finally destroy the demon lord after two
months of trying, the server could automatically generate a
newsflash (for a login message, for a web site, for a mobile phone
message, for email) to inform everyone what’s happened. Done
right, it may even be possible to create faux articles for the
virtual world’s virtual newspapers.
250 Chapter 3
It’s therefore not only individual players who can benefit from a
virtual world’s acceptance of intangibles: the whole community
can.
Role-Playing
I have a story to complete…
Polly’s Tale (Continued)
Why won’t they role-play?
Everyone is in the same real-world room. Everyone can see each
other in real life. They’re in MUD, but only shallowly; they’re still
connected in Reality. Everything they do in the virtual world is
subject to the same peer pressure as in the real one, because
they still feel like they’re their real selves. They’re constrained.
Yet I’ve played D&D. I know that people can be connected in the
real world and still role-play. MUD offers even more opportunity
to experiment with identity—precisely what my friends seek.
So, why won’t they step over the line?
They need permission to role-play.
As MUD’s programmer and the group’s overall leader, I’m the
obvious choice to give them this permission. Yet how can I do
that? And how will they know what to do when I’ve given it
anyway? They won’t take direction—I can’t say, “Pretend to be
someone a little more tolerant than you are,” and expect them to
go with it. The best I can do is to demonstrate role-playing in
action.
Players 251
Yet even then, there’s a strong pull back to reality. I can create a
character and pretend it’s a pirate or a monk or an
enthusiastically chivalrous knight, but they’ll still identify the
character with me. That could be tricky, as there’s no shielding
context: Pretending to be an upper-class twit is fine if you’re
acting in a play, but bizarre if you do it while playing chess.
Somehow, I have to show that MUD is a shielding context.
If I’m going to break the mold, I’m going to have to hit it hard. I
formulate a fiendish plan.
I create a character called Polly. Polly is a secondary character I
use for testing things in the game. I say that I chose the name
because Polly is like a parrot. Everyone knows Polly is my debug
character.
When I inherited MUD1 from Roy, it didn’t implement gender.
This was entirely due to Roy’s rush to write as much of the
program as possible in the short period of time available to him;
he felt that gender could easily be added later, whereas things
such as communication had priority85. As far as both Roy and I
were concerned, gender was merely a linguistic issue forced on
us by the English language; the only changes it meant for the
virtual world concerned personal pronouns in event
descriptions.
Polly may be the stereotypical name for a parrot, but it’s a
female name. This gives me my excuse. I add gender. Players are
asked, “By what name shall I call you?” then “What sex do you
wish to be?” Naturally, I use Polly to test my new code.
85 This was nothing to do with the fact that we had no female players. Roy
was, and is, against blind prejudice of any kind.
252 Chapter 3
So Polly is no longer a parrot. Polly is a cheerful yet feisty girl
who likes helping people but gets cross if they patronize her.
If I’d added gender to MUD and not created Polly, what would
have happened? The chances are, people would not have played
with switched gender, afraid of the disparaging remarks about
their sexuality that doing so would attract.
I run that risk, of course, but I’m confident that I’ve designed
Polly well enough that no one is going to see her as a sexual
object, just as an ersatz sister. I also have the advantage of not
actually caring if people say I’m a transvestite behind my back.
Luckily, Polly works.
People know I’m Polly, but they also know I’m not Polly; I
thereby illustrate the massive gulf it’s possible to create
between player and character. As MUD’s programmer, my
kudos is sufficiently strong enough that I pull it off. People
think, “If Richard can have a female persona, maybe I’ll try it
myself.”
They do. The gates are open, and new lands await. Players laugh
and joke about having female characters, but their other
characters also begin to act in smaller, more incrementally
different ways. Players have a freedom that they couldn’t have
in real life.
I’m ashamed, because I’ve been manipulative, but I believe that
overall I did the right thing.
Besides, I’m rather fond of Polly.
Postscript
Did any of this help my friends?
Players 253
To be honest, probably not—it was by then too late for most of
them. It did help denerd those that followed, though.
It also set a lasting precedent: Virtual worlds are seen as
acceptable shielding contexts. To this day, playing a character in
a virtual world with a gender different from your own does not
suggest anything about your sexuality—just your readiness to
spread your wings and fly.
I’m rather proud of that.
On Being Others
I told Polly’s tale for three reasons:
• To illustrate the importance of identity exploration in virtual
worlds, and the emptiness of a world without it.
• To demonstrate how something that many designers take
for granted as part and parcel of virtual worlds has a realworld beginning.
• To counter the popular notion among some researchers that
MUD1 was written by a couple of one-dimensional hackers
whose only aim was to provide a medium for adolescent
males to live out fantasies of bloodthirsty violence86
.
Crossing gender with Polly was not done as a means unto itself:
I was attempting to show what role-playing enabled, and that it
was okay to indulge in; gender was just the mechanism I used to
do this. The fact that researchers almost invariably write about
crossing gender in virtual worlds as if it were something
amazingly special is slightly off the point. It is important, but no
more so than any other severe disjunction between player and
86 Yes, Dale Spender, author of Nattering on the Net: Women, Power, and
Cyberspace. Melbourne, Spinifex, 1995. I’m talking to you.
254 Chapter 3
character. Maintaining the impression that you’re a 90-year-old
ninja elf is far more difficult than acting as if you’re the opposite
gender87
.
Pretending to be your non-biological sex in a virtual world has a
higher profile than other forms of identity dislocation because
it’s the only “physical” identity cue that players have to specify
in virtual worlds. However, it’s just one of many dimensions. If
virtual worlds asked players to specify a real-world race for
their characters, whether instead of a fantasy race or in addition
to one (a Jewish elf, a Chinese troll), then this would be highprofile too88. As it is, almost every textual world avoids realworld race; graphical worlds use skin tones and identikit face
construction to allow players to present whatever look they
want, but it’s never referred to as race or ethnicity. It’s just a
look, which is forced on a graphical world in the same way that
language forces gender on textual worlds89
.
MUD1 didn’t have race, age, class, weight, or any other physical
identity cues except for gender; it wouldn’t have had that either
if English was up to the job. Players could have still pretended to
be the opposite sex had that been the case, of course, but they
wouldn’t have been forced to instantiate to either. Constraints
diminish opportunity.
Playing a character of a gender opposite to your own should
therefore be regarded as merely one of a number of ways that
players can choose to explore their selves; it is discussed in
greater detail in Chapter 6, “It’s Not a Game, It’s a ….”
87 Assuming, of course, that you aren’t a 90-year-old ninja elf in real life.
88 For a discussion of race (or lack of it) in virtual worlds, see: Beth E. Kolko,
Erasing @race. Beth E. Kolko, Lisa Nakamura and Gilbert B. Rodman (editors),
Race in Cyberspace. New York, Routledge, 2000.
89 Most languages, this is. Some languages, for example Chinese written in
pin yin, can be gender nonspecific.
Players 255
For the moment, however, one of the consequences of this kind
of identity experimentation is of more pressing interest.
As a man, there’s nothing incompatible with having a female
persona (nor vice versa): Although men can’t be women in real
life (without a series of very unnerving operations, anyway),
they can be women in virtual worlds. Your persona is you, in the
virtual world: You can be female there, whatever your real-life
gender.
When you’re starting out, though, you have to play a role. You
have to decide how you think a character of the opposite sex
would act, and stick with it. Your own identity can adapt toward
that of your character’s, but your character’s can’t (at this stage)
shift much toward your own. It’s locked in place.
This brings us to consider the nature of role-playing.
The Role-Playing Paradox
Experienced players will sometimes speak of “wearing” a
character, like they might wear a mask. The freedom of
revealing less of their outer selves can lead them to reveal more
of their inner selves. They can, therefore, learn more about their
inner selves, and change their character so it fits more
comfortably. Ultimately, their inner and outer selves line up,
and character becomes persona.
This is often described as role-playing. It is not. Role-playing is
about assuming a role and maintaining that role. The role
doesn’t change; if the character changes, it’s only for reasons
that make sense for that character, not for the role-player.
An actor on a stage is playing a part. Actors might put more of
themselves into a part as they come to know their character, but
256 Chapter 3
they can’t change the part. A theatergoer might notice a distinct
difference between performances six months apart in a run, but
actors and their characters remain separate. Spending every
night playing a poisoner may give an actor insights into the
mindset of such a person, but it’s unlikely to turn the actor into
a poisoner; crucially, it most definitely won’t turn the poisoner
into an actor.
Players can adapt their characters. Role-players determine not
to. Role-playing is therefore a sub-class of playing. Both are
paths to fulfillment, and both have the same overall goal: Being
someone else in order to become a better you. Unfortunately,
the term “role-playing” is widely applied to all kinds of playing
in virtual worlds—it’s even incorporated into the acronym
MMORPG. Properly, though, it should only be used to describe
fluid-player-to-set-character play. Much confusion flows from
this.
I should point out that putting yourself in someone else’s shoes
is a perfectly valid way to learn more about yourself; I’m not
about to disparage role-playing here. What I am about to
disparage is the misunderstanding of what role-playing is, and
the design paradigms this misunderstanding has promoted.
Role-players map themselves onto a character. They don’t map
the character onto themselves. In so doing, they can come to an
understanding of what makes their character tick, which
enables them to reflect on their own attitudes, beliefs, and ways
of thinking. The key is that they change, but the character
doesn’t. The default for virtual worlds is for both to change. As a
role-player, you can only learn about yourself as you approach a
character; once you reach the character, you can learn no more
from it. You have to take another role if you want to go in a
different direction.
Players 257
This, then, is the role-playing paradox: As a role-player, you try to
become your character; however if you succeed then you’re no
longer role-playing.
In other words, the journey is the point of the exercise, not what
you do when you get there.
So role-playing sets up the necessary conditions for immersion,
but the harder you role-play the less immersed you get:
Thinking about your character as a separate entity breaks
immersion. The more you think about a line to decide whether
it’s right for your character, the greater the distance you put
between yourself and that character. The conscious post-editing
of your character’s words means the subconscious separation of
you and your character.
This isn’t how players and designers of virtual worlds usually
see it at all.
Soft Role-Playing
Role-playing in virtual worlds is one of those concepts that is
inherited from “parent” virtual worlds without a great deal of
thought as to its nature. Consequently, over the generations it
has become less understood. There are honorable exceptions—
particularly among TinyMUSHes—but for the most part virtual
worlds have a fairly relaxed idea of what constitutes roleplaying.
One of the tenets of role-playing is that role-players must have a
role to play. It doesn’t matter per se whether these roles are
created by individual players or they’re assigned by some
referee. Players usually like to create their own characters, but
in practice most settings have constraints on the roles people
can play (no cowboys in the court of Louis XIV). A midway
position is therefore usually adopted where a number of
258 Chapter 3
scenario-specific templates are provided (musicians, advisors,
guards, courtiers) and players get to choose which one they
want. They can customize their character further if they so
wish, so long as they stay within the character’s (and scenario’s)
stated parameters. There will be limits on specific roles (only
one person gets to be Louis XIV) and balance issues between
generic ones (guards are needed—not everyone can be a
courtier). These are rarely hard to resolve, though.
Although this template scheme works for role-playing in
general (historical reenactments, Murder on the Luxor Express
dinner parties, theatrical productions), why does it appear in
virtual worlds? In almost every virtual world, one of the major
decisions players have to make when they create their
characters is what class they have to be. Why is that?
Early MUDs did not have character classes. Some second age
virtual words introduced them, but it wasn’t until the third age
that they really took off. Character classes90 were absorbed from
AD&D, which ultimately got them from the miniature
wargames (that is, wargames using toy soldier “miniatures”)
that gave rise to D&D.
In a miniature wargame, units are categorized much as they are
in real life: A Napoleon-era general might think in terms of
cavalry, infantry, and artillery units, each with its own
particular strengths and weaknesses; a player in a miniature
wargame will also look on their units this way, with perhaps
special miniatures to represent major individuals on the
battlefield (for example, Napoleon). If the battle were in a
fantasy setting (say, the Battle of the Five Armies from The
90 Traditionally these are all variations on fighter, magic-user, cleric, thief; as
these are fantasy-oriented, though, players and designers will sometimes
speak of tank, nuker, healer, rogue.
Players 259
Hobbit), there might be units representing monsters (wargs,
orcs) and specialist troops (elven archers, dwarven axewielders), plus a few for individuals (Bilbo, Gandalf, Beorn,
Thorin) and wild cards (eagles). A more generic fantasy setting
might have units for magic-users, fighters, holy men, and so on,
their powers on the battlefield defined in terms of a quick-andeasy level rating.
Taking these characters out of the battlefield and into the
dungeon, their classes and levels were already set; their abilities
could be defined in terms of those classes and levels. Thus, when
role-playing evolved as a concept in gaming, character classes
were already there. However, role-playing meant taking on the
role of an individual (as opposed to a unit comprising several
individuals), not the role defined by a class.
This traces how character classes came to be a part of virtual
worlds, but it doesn’t explain why.
Well, there are four reasons:
• Expectation. Virtual world designers had played AD&D.
AD&D had levels and classes; virtual worlds had only levels,
therefore they ought to have classes, too.
• Individuality. Players like to feel unique. If a virtual world
isn’t richly featured enough for players to differentiate
themselves by their deeds, give them one that enforces
differentiation.
• Balance. If one playing style leads to greater success than
others, most people will adopt it. By deliberately partitioning
the player base such that there are several styles, each of
which is dependent on the others for success, a virtual world
is much more interesting. Adventuring groups form social
bonds, too.
260 Chapter 3
• Direction. Not everyone knows who they want to be. If you
stand at a crossroads, can you decide which road to take if
there are no signs? Classes provide signs.
Note that none of these have much to do with role-playing.
Somewhere, players and designers alike lost sight of what it
meant. Instead of class being an aspect of an individual,
individuals were aspects of a class. Role-playing meant being a
thief or a healer, not being Knuckles or Justina.
Thus, we have two paradigms for role-playing in virtual worlds:
classless and classbound91
.
I much prefer classless. Here’s why.
Let’s consider that list of reasons why classes appear in virtual
worlds. The first one, expectation, is not really an issue.
Nowadays if players see a virtual world with no classes when
they were expecting classes, they might want to know why
classes are missing—that’s okay, we can tell them. They’re not
going to ignore a world through some sense of “incompletion,”
though, if indeed they ever were before.
The next reason, individuality, is a consequence of a world’s lack
of depth. If your world is so shallow that players can’t do
different things unless you give them different tools, you need
classes. Today’s virtual worlds should not be this shallow,
though. Modern tabletop role-playing games use skills systems
rather than classes; this build-from-pieces approach offers far
91 Because the early (classless) MUDs were British and the tabletop
(classbound) standard came from the U.S., these were originally called the
British and American styles of role-playing. I prefer classless/classbound,
however, because it’s more accurate and doesn’t carry connotations of
nationalistic bias.
Players 261
greater variety than the cookie-cutting land of classbound
systems.
Balance can be an issue. If there is no explicit fence keeping
abilities separate, what is to stop someone from maxing out in
fighting skills, magic, and healing, and becoming invincible92?
Won’t everyone end up looking and acting the same? Again, this
assumes that your virtual world is so impoverished that it can
only offer players one overarching goal (normally “kill things to
get stuff so you can kill more things”). However, at a practical
level balance is dependent on how advancement works. If it
takes you the same time to become a level 20 fighter/magic-user
that someone else takes to become a level 40 magic-user, you
have the worst deal—they’d probably beat you easily in combat.
People can still take different career paths and parties of
specialists will still be formed. To stop getting maxed-out killing
machines, either introduce permanent death into your virtual
world or take off the level caps.
The final reason for having classes is to give players a vision of
the future. They choose a destination, board a train, and know
where they’re going. The same can be done with character kits,
though—skill sets optimized for a particular playing style
template. Chapter 5 gives a few other ways to do it. Players
seeking direction want to know that fighter and magic-user are
careers it’s sensible to pursue; they don’t care whether these are
implemented as classes or as kits.
Okay, so a classless “role-playing” system can be tweaked to do
what a classbound one can. There are a few other minor reasons
for using classes, but solutions to those can be hacked together,
too. This doesn’t explain why anyone would want to use a
92 Such characters used to be called tanks or tank mages, but now the term
“tank” is used to apply to any out-in-front fighter character.
262 Chapter 3
classless system, though. Classes are easy to implement. What
does a classless system offer that a classbound system doesn’t?
It offers change.
People play virtual worlds to explore their identities: You
pretend to be someone else in order to become a better you.
In classbound role-playing, you begin your journey of selfimprovement with a definite goal in mind. If you want to be
mysterious, aloof, singular, and powerful, you become a mage; if
you want to be quick-witted, spirited, independent yet lovable,
you become a rogue; if you want to be strong, noble, valiant, and
victorious, you become a fighter. Or you pick one of the many
sub-classes that make this virtual world different to the one
next door.
It’s aspirational. You decide where you want to go, then you
board the train and the virtual world takes you there.
But it’s a train. It runs on rails. You can’t get off. You have to
start with another character and board a different train if you
want to go somewhere else. There may be a branch line for
“fighters who do some healing” or “thieves who thieve for good,”
but they’re still lines. Between the lines is a whole continuum of
experience that you can’t ever reach. You may get the occasional
glimpse through the window, but you can’t ever visit it no
matter how much you like the scenery.
In a classless system, you can go where you want. You may start
out intending to be a fighter and have your character take a job
guarding a merchant caravan. From there, you may try some
minor trading yourself so you can improve your weapons and
armor, but discover that you prefer the trading to the fighting
so you switch to being a merchant full time. Or maybe the
bandits who raid the caravan are fighting for freedom from a
Players 263
tyrannical ruler, so you join up with them, rising through the
ranks until you find yourself a major revolutionary figure who is
given the job of reconstructing the country when peace finally
comes. Now if at character-creation time you’d been offered the
chance to become a merchant or an aid worker, would you have
taken it? No, because you wanted to be a fighter. In a classless
system, you can still start off as a fighter; you can still stay a
fighter, if that’s where your calling lies. However, you can also
veer off and become something else if the muse takes you.
In a classbound system, you can only be what the designers
determine you can be. In a classless system, you can be
something that the designers haven’t even dreamed of.
It’s possible to tinker with class systems to allow some degree of
lateral movement. EverQuest 2 has a funnel-like system, which
doesn’t force newbies to make any major decisions as to what
class they want to be. As they go up levels, however, they have
to specialize more and more, until they become locked in to
their chosen career. This is a great way of helping newbies settle
in, and by the time they commit themselves to a single class
they’re pretty sure it’s the right one. Unfortunately, it’s still only
the right one of those available; it’s still only the right choice for
now.
The same argument that applies to classes also can be applied to
character races. Just as magic-users differ from fighters, so
magic-users that are human differ from magic-users that are
elves93. If you take on the role of a blue-skinned, triton-waving,
lizardoid fighter then you probably will find things about
yourself that you wouldn’t if you didn’t, but it could well be an
93 Gender differences don’t generally apply, though. Hey, virtual worlds are
progressive places, they don’t want any sexism. Institutionalizing abstract
racism seems to be fine, though. See Chapter 8, “Coda: Ethical
Considerations,” for a further discussion of these issues.
264 Chapter 3
unsatisfactory experience. It has the same dual player/character
drift that you get in classless systems, but the character is
constrained; when it reaches the boundaries of what the virtual
world allows, the player still wants it to move, but it can’t.
This is soft role-playing: The character can change, but not
always by enough to supply the player’s needs. In hard roleplaying, the character remains fixed, which sounds like it should
be even worse; however, the player changes willfully, and can
therefore be more systematic about challenging their attitude
and behavior. After the hard role-player has wrung a role dry,
they drop it and choose another; soft role-players have no such
option, which can make for a frustrating time.
As a virtual world identity-exploration experience, role-playing
works. Staying with one role the whole time is inherently
limiting, of course, but it can be more intense. Unfortunately,
hard role-play immersion is only ever ephemeral. Nevertheless,
done right it can be very rewarding for players: MUSHes in
particular are often entirely role-play in nature, with no one
playing out-of-character (OOC). Role-playing also is
perfectly compatible with virtual worlds in which the majority
of players are not role-playing; most of the time, it’s only a
problem if people try to use it as a shield (“That wasn’t me who
insulted your mother, it was my other character.” Yeah, right.).
That’s most of the time….
Very, very occasionally, over-enthusiastic role-playing can lead
to problems—problems that provoke some of the most
profound, negative emotions that players in virtual worlds ever
have the misfortune to feel.
Players 265
Masquerading
Role-playing a character is one thing; role-playing a player is
something else.
Suppose you’re male in real life, playing a female character.
Some other player asks you whether you’re female in real life.
You have three options:
• Tell the truth. Everyone knows you’re a real-life guy, but
who cares? Most people will happily play along with the
fiction.
• Don’t answer the question. Everyone still knows you’re a
real-life guy, but they respect the fact that you’re roleplaying and want to keep in character.
• Lie. Now you’re not role-playing a character, you’re roleplaying a player (an alter ego) who is playing a character.
Why do people lie about player/character mappings?
It may be because they have a real-world reason for it: They are
an administrator for the virtual world trying to get a sense of
the “the word on the street”; they are famous and want to take a
break94; they are parents checking out that a game is suitable
for their children. In this sort of situation, they are said to be
playing incognito. Usually, they’ll be happy for the
administrators of the virtual world to know the score, just so
long as other players don’t find out.
For the majority, though, there usually isn’t any premeditated
reason to lie. They do it because they can, or because it gives
them a frisson of excitement, or because they like the way
94 Even Superman had to be Clark Kent some of the time.
266 Chapter 3
people treat them, or simply to see what happens. Almost
always, they don’t think it’s all that big a deal to start with; they
will nevertheless try to keep their activities a secret from
administrators just as much as from other players. Role-playing
a person who is playing a character is called masquerading.
The problem with masquerading is that deep relationships are
formed between people, not between characters. Characters can
have virtual relationships (a player can cause Tommy to act like
he loves Tammy), but players have real ones (the player playing
Tommy really does love the player playing Tammy). The longer
and more convincingly a lie is sustained, the more meaningful
the relationships formed become; when the lie is finally exposed,
the emotional effect can be absolutely devastating. Finding out
that the 20-year-old, wheelchair-bound ex-athlete you’ve been
getting to know over the course of two years is actually a 40-
year-old company lawyer from Chicago could represent for you
a betrayal of trust at a profound level. All that time you were
building up an emotional attachment, someone was playing you
for a fool. Everything was a lie, from beginning to end.
I’ve seen it happen several times, and it really is very, very
upsetting for all concerned. So, how do you spot it?
Most of the time, it’s easy. People will often realize what’s
happening in time and stop before things get out of hand. Of
those that don’t, many are found out early because of flaws in
their role-playing (“How come you type so fast if you have twoinch long fingernails?”). For the remainder, it’s harder.
Nevertheless, because most people don’t plan on masquerading
(they just fall into it), there are a number of common themes.
Players will:
• Claim their alter ego is physically attractive or of high
status.
Players 267
• Give their alter ego’s character the same valid real-world
name as their alter ego (especially when crossing
gender).
• Invent some reason why their alter ego can’t go to reallife meets (disability, phobia, lives in Saskatchewan).
• Never give out their phone number (or, if they do, will
always insist on talking in the virtual world whenever
you call).
• Avoid players who really are what the player is only
pretending to be (men playing women will avoid real
women).
• Bring in “friends” their alter ego knows “in real life.”
These friends never become regular players.
• Have their alter ego take on high-profile roles, usually for
the good of the community.
• Have their alter ego succumb to injuries or ailments that
lead to absences or promised absences.
Of these, the saddest sign is perhaps the last one. The player
feels guilt over their deceit and has genuine fondness for their
virtual world friends. The player knows how distressing it
would be were the truth to come out, so they try to provide an
exit. They stop playing for no reason, but have to come back
because there’s no closure, which means they must explain why
they went missing. They set themselves a deadline for when
they will quit and invent a fiction for it so everyone knows
they’ll be going at that point, but the fiction makes their bonds
even stronger and they still can’t leave.
Ultimately95, something has to give. If a player becomes a
persona but that persona can’t become the player, there is a
tension that can never be resolved. Either the player feels they
have to tell someone, or they make a series of errors so glaring
95 Generally, 18–24 months after having started to play.
268 Chapter 3
that they are certain to be found out, or they contrive for their
alter ego to leave in such a manner that return is impossible.
The single greatest cause of sudden death among beautiful,
young, female players is that the guy who was role-playing
them wanted an irreversible out.
So could you ever masquerade and get away with it?
Well yes, you could, but you really ought to think about why
you’d want to. It’s more appropriate to ask whether you can play
incognito and get away with it. The answer here is that it’s
relatively easy in the short term if you obey a few simple rules:
• Don’t get attached to your alter ego. It isn’t going to last.
• Don’t get into relationships with other players beyond
politeness.
• Keep your head down. High-profile characters attract
attention.
• Abandon the exercise the moment anyone smells a rat.
• When you abort, don’t immediately restart.
For this level of playing incognito, you generally don’t care if
you’re caught. This is probably just as well, because if you’re a
long-term player of the virtual world, then people will notice
your idiosyncrasies sooner or later anyway. After all, if
telegraph operators can be identified from tapping out Morse
code, what hope do you have?
Well, you can take precautions. You can run a spell-checker over
a log of your communications and find out what words you
consistently misspell, then resolve not to use them. You can
think up a few catchphrases like “I guess” or “you know” that
you don’t normally use and sprinkle those into your speech. You
can use meticulous capitalization or sloppy abbreviations—
anything to disguise your underlying speech patterns. I once
Players 269
played a character incognito whom I decided wouldn’t use
nouns that began with vowels; nobody noticed, but it meant I
post-edited every line he said and was thus better able to keep
in character.
This kind of thing leads to a more serious level of playing
incognito. In essence, what you’re doing is designing a player in
the same way that a normal player would design a character.
You’d give your alter ego a number of superficial differences in
playing style to your own, some knowledge (and
misconceptions) of the virtual world, enough to throw anyone
suspicious off the scent. “That can’t be Mike, he spends all his
time killing undead with a sickle;” “Jo never plays this early in
the evening;” “It’s spelled LOSE, not LOOSE!”
Using this approach you can play for several weeks or months
without detection, although I’d recommend getting an
accomplice to help you every once in a while so both your
regular characters and your alter ego’s characters can be seen
hanging around doing sensible things at the same time.
If you plan on playing incognito in the same virtual world for a
year or more, it starts to look less like playing and more like
espionage. It’s hard, but not impossible, to escape detection, as
long as you’re well prepared in advance and have reasonable
acting skills. Here’s what to do:
• Be sure you have a very good reason for embarking on this
task. “To have fun” is not a very good reason.
• Ensure you can spare the time. This will really gobble it up.
• Design your alter ego from the ground up. What makes it
tick? What are its goals, background, fears? How intelligent,
articulate, extrovert is it? Do some personality tests incharacter, make sure it’s all consistent.
• Give your alter ego a history. What has it done in life? Who
are its friends and relatives? Why are they playing this
270 Chapter 3
virtual world? Be sure to come up with some reason why no
one can phone you (paranoia only works as an excuse for
four months or so before it starts getting harder to justify).
• Give your alter ego an online history. Six months before you
need your alter ego, create a web site. Illustrate it with
photos of a friend who is not stunningly good looking. Handcode the HTML so it looks different from your own web site.
Later, create web sites for friends and put links between
them. Make some Usenet posts. Tell nobody about these—
it’ll look suspicious. Let people find you through search
engines.
• Don’t give your alter ego skills or knowledge you don’t have.
If their favorite music is classical, be ready to answer
questions as to whether Mahler’s use of strings is sublime or
over the top. If your alter ego speaks German, you’d better
speak it too.
• Dry-run your alter ego on other virtual worlds and in chat
rooms. Make sure it works coherently and you can keep it
up.
• Either use an accomplice or never go on vacation. Your
accomplice plays you when you’re away, not your alter ego.
• Use a separate PC for your alter ego. Firewall it. There’s just
too much risk of detection from cookies, misdirected emails,
and slips in concentration otherwise.
• Locate your alter ego somewhere remote, so meeting anyone
in real life is impractical. Important: You should have been to
this place in real life; keeping a guide book or a web site at
hand isn’t enough.
• Have an out from the beginning. Absolutely the best is the
main reason most people leave—to play some other virtual
world instead. However, if you do this, then you may be
tempted to return. You might therefore prefer to choose
some life-changing event in advance that will enable you to
leave your friends behind without causing them any
worry—your alter ego is going to college, or is getting
married, or is doing voluntary service overseas.
Players 271
• Leave false clues that you are someone else, preferably
someone in a position of power in the virtual world. If
anyone suspects your alter ego of being someone playing
incognito, they won’t think it’s you.
• If you plan on doing this several times, build more than one
false identity and overlap playing times. If alter ego X is due
to leave in a few weeks, introduce alter ego Y now.
• Do not form deep relationships. Playing incognito is
deceitful, and no matter how good your reasons for doing it,
you have no right to trample over people’s emotions. Have a
barrier in place from the very beginning—inventing a
steady real-world boy/girlfriend is perfectly acceptable.
• The instant you are suspected, stop playing. If you don’t,
things will only get worse than they are already.
I’ve listed this sneak’s charter for two main reasons.
The first is to continue the discussion on role-playing. If people
can go to these lengths and play incognito for two or more years
at a time, shouldn’t this have weird side effects on their sense of
identity?
It’s quite possible it could have, yes. This really is something
nobody should attempt unless they know what they are doing!
That said, some people can play this way successfully for long
periods—years—without ill effects. This is because it enables
the separation of immersion from identity. You don’t feel that
you are in the game, you feel that the player you’ve created is.
Identity drift can still occur between character and invented
player (or even you), but rarely between invented player and you
except by explicit reflection. This is because immersion in a
real-world invented alter ego is overwhelmingly more difficult
than it is in a virtual character, if indeed it makes sense to talk
about the concept at all.
272 Chapter 3
The lesson we can learn from this is that although immersion
and identity are strongly interdependent, they’re not
inseparable. One of my hobbies is taking 3D photographs, which
consist of two 2D images taken from slightly different angles,
viewed side-by-side. If I cross my eyes, I can make it appear as if
there is only one image, but it’s out of focus. I have to bring it
into focus while keeping my eyes crossed; this means
decoupling the eye’s focusing mechanism from its directional
mechanism. After years of experience, I can now do this easily,
but it took a while to learn the technique. So it is with
immersion and identity: Although normally they work together
so closely that it’s as if they’re a single system, actually we can
now see they’re not. Immersion may help bring dimension to
identity, but it’s only the default way to do it. You can be
immersed through the medium of a constructed player without
its greatly impinging on your sense of self. From this, we can
deduce that it isn’t immersion that drives the celebration of
identity, but something else of which immersion is an aspect.
We’ll return to this topic later in this chapter.
My second reason for describing how someone might go about
dishonestly deceiving players as to their real-world identity in
this underhanded fashion is that unfortunately it’s really useful
for designers on the live team to be able to do this. Data-mining
can only go so far96. By actually playing a virtual world as a real
player from beginning to (nominal) end, designers can get an
unparalleled understanding of what it “feels” like. They don’t
have to rely on the outpourings of players on rant sites to tell
them what’s wrong, they can see it with their own eyes—and
they can also see if a problem is nonexistent or is being
96 David Kennerly, Better Game Design through Data Mining. San Jose,
Proceedings MUD-DEV Conference, 2003.
http://userwww.sfsu.edu/~kennerly/game_design/Data_Mining_files/
frame.htm.
Players 273
exaggerated out of all proportion. It really does give them an
understanding they simply couldn’t get any other way.
Whether they have any moral defense for these actions is
another matter, of course. It’s not unprecedented in the real
world: Henry V of England dressed as a common soldier and
wandered among his men on the eve of the Battle of Agincourt;
the Russian emperor Peter the Great traveled Europe incognito
as Sgt. Pyotr Mikhaylov, spending four months as a carpenter in
the shipyard of the Dutch East India Company at Saardam
before working in the Royal Navy yards at Deptford.
For a game designer, well, it’s up to you. If you don’t like it, don’t
do it.
From a purely pragmatic point of view, it would probably be
more useful for a large-population virtual world than for a
smaller one. I’ve done it several times for both MUD1 and MUD2,
and feel that on the whole it’s worthwhile as long as you really
are finding it useful. If you’re not, stop. If it becomes an
obsession, stop. If your alter ego falls out with your friends, stop.
Especially if other people start investing in emotional
relationships with you, stop.
Players may take issue with this. The live team stomps on
people’s feelings? And because it’s for the long-term “benefit” of
the virtual world, that somehow makes it okay? Don’t players
have rights?!
That’s actually quite an interesting question.
274 Chapter 3
Player Rights
Players do have rights. Players are real people, real people have
rights97, therefore players have rights.
Characters, on the other hand, have no rights whatsoever.
For example, it makes sense to say that players have a right to
exist, but no sense to say that characters share that right.
Characters can—and do—get killed regularly in game-style
virtual worlds. Characters don’t even have to have a human
being controlling them.
When players become so immersed that they merge with their
characters, they still have rights. Their characters (personae)
now have rights too, but only in the sense that players do.
Killing a persona does not kill a player; it might cause a player
severe emotional distress, but any system embodying “the right
not to be made very upset” would be wholly impractical (“You
mean I can’t dump my girlfriend?”). Systematically persecuting
a player through the vehicle of their persona, on the other hand,
does border on oppression (if not exactly torture). It’s still the
player that suffers, though, not the character. Just because
someone puts your character on a rack, you can’t claim it’s “just
like” you were put on the rack yourself. It isn’t.
There is, however, an often-supposed notion that players
nevertheless have rights in a virtual world beyond those
granted by the real world. There are two arguments as to why
this should be the case.
The first argument is that the players of a virtual world make up
a population, and populations determine for themselves what
rights they have. Who gave the citizens of the United States
97 In theory, if not always in practice.
Players 275
their rights? “We, the people.” Unfortunately, for virtual worlds
the populace does not have sovereignty. The people who write
the code and run the hardware have sovereignty. The counterargument is that with this power comes responsibility. That’s
true, it does, but responsibility doesn’t mean rights.
The second argument is more pragmatic. Rights are granted by
those who have power. Administrators have power because they
can turn off a virtual world. However, players also have power
because they, too, can turn off a virtual world—they can stop
playing. By constructing a virtual world and inviting people into
it, administrators are conceding that they have a need for
players. Players are therefore in a position to insist on
guarantees from the administrators, enshrined as a
constitution, otherwise they’ll go play elsewhere. Players have
rights because in the end it is they who wield the most power,
not the administrators.
As a thought experiment, Raph Koster constructed a Declaration
of the Rights of Avatars98, based on the French Declaration of the
Rights of Man and of the Citizen and the American Bill of Rights.
On the face of it, the result is way too unpalatable for most
developers to swallow, however it loses a lot of its bitterness
when rewritten in plain English as “advice to virtual world
administrators” rather than “rights of avatars.” What it then
amounts to can be summed up pretty well as:
• Ultimately, someone has their finger on the power button.
• What this someone says, goes.
• If this someone doesn’t provide a code of conduct for their
virtual world, then anyone playing in it deserves all they get.
98 http://www.legendmud.org/raph/gaming/playerrights.html
276 Chapter 3
• If this someone wants to change the code of conduct, they
should consult their players, but they can ignore whatever
they are told.
• Codes of conduct should be fair and should be applied fairly.
Codes of conduct are basically sets of laws. Although the
Declaration of the Rights of Avatars assumes a U.S. perspective
(anything not prohibited by law is permitted), this isn’t to say
that alternative forms aren’t valid (in much of continental
Europe, what is not permitted by law is prohibited). It’s just one
example of what a constitution might look like.
There are two areas of confusion, however: Between players and
characters and between real and virtual worlds. The following
argument illustrates both.
Let’s accept that people have rights to liberty, property,
security, and freedom from oppression. This does not mean that
their characters have any such rights. If my character locks your
character in a room and steals your stuff, that affronts no
inalienable rights. Its rightness or wrongness is determined
entirely by the context of the virtual world. Some virtual worlds
may be constructed so that this is intrinsic to them. If I were
playing in an “escape from Colditz99” virtual world, I would be
disappointed if my character could walk out of the front door
simply because some right to virtual liberty was being
infringed. I would expect the guards to destroy my character’s
digging tools if they found them—it would spoil the game if my
character’s property rights made this unconstitutional.
99 Nazi Germany’s highest security prisoner of war camp, a converted castle.
Players 277
Even if you were to buy a virtual object with real-world money
from its real-world owners100, that still would not mean your
character had any “right” to it. My character would not be
prevented from stealing it from your character if that’s how the
virtual world worked. You’d still real-world own the object, but
that would not mean you could demand that it be changed in
the virtual world unless you’d also bought some sort of explicit
servicing agreement. You could conceivably argue that changes
due to bugs in the code be reversed, and you may have a case if
your object were destroyed. However, if in the real world you
own a piece of a virtual world, you can’t extend this to say your
character owns it in the virtual world.
The implementation of the virtual world alone determines the
meaning of ownership— and everything else—within that
virtual world. If you know this when you buy your virtual object,
you can’t complain. It would be like taking a bicycle back to the
shop because it didn’t turn to gold when you sat on it. The laws
of physics don’t work that way in the real world. In a virtual
world, everything tangible is subject to the laws of that virtual
world’s physics. That includes concepts that are nonphysical in
the real world, such as that of ownership.
Virtual worlds don’t work the same way that the real world
works. It is a mistake to assume that they do.
So what can we say about players’ rights?
• Players have rights in the real world, of which the virtual
world is a part.
• When considering rights, virtual worlds should only be
thought of in terms of being a part of the real world.
100 This will originally be the developers, no matter how much players would
like to believe otherwise.
278 Chapter 3
• Administrators can take their ball home if they like.
• Players don’t have to play ball if they don’t want to.
For designers, the only impact of this is that they should always
remember there are real people attached to virtual characters.
These people can be affected in the real world by events in the
virtual world. If the way these people are affected breaches their
rights (or the laws that express these rights), then the designer
is errant. Fortunately, the context of the virtual world normally
provides enough cover that even when designers do slip up the
damage is not normally too great. In the same way that
someone who deliberately visits a museum of slavery can’t
complain if the accoutrements of enslavement exhibited within
give them nightmares, so a player who signs up to an “escape
from Colditz” game can’t legitimately complain if there are
images of Nazi regalia everywhere. They could, however,
complain if their character escaped from Colditz and
encountered a starkly realistic depiction of a concentration
camp. They didn’t sign up for that, and suddenly the game is not
a game any more.
Most problems of this nature will come from misjudgments
rather than from deliberate flouting of the law. It’s quite
difficult, in fact, to conceive how a designer could contravene a
player’s fundamental rights in the real world by means of
constructs in the virtual one.
That said, this is not actually hard-and-fast101. I’m not a lawyer,
none of what I have said here has yet been tested in a court of
law; it might turn out to be complete hogwash. So young is the
101 There are philosophical arguments that suggest avatars (in addition to
players) should have rights, although that’s not to say that they must have
them or that they should all have the same ones. See Wesley E. Cooper,
Wizards, Toads and Ethics: Reflections of a MOO Administrator. CMC Magazine,
January 1996. http://www.december.com/cmc/mag/1996/jan/cooper.html.
Players 279
debate that its parameters are still being set. The first legal
battleground to determine the place of virtual worlds in the real
world is likely to be in intellectual property law; whether this
will turn out to be robust enough to settle all outstanding issues
depends on how the lawyers and judges slug it out, but it seems
doubtful. In all probability, it will be some time before a working
legal and constitutional understanding of the place of virtual
worlds is reached.
It would be easy to conclude this analysis of players’ rights by
stating that designers have very little to worry about on the
subject, so all is well. It has, however, exposed an issue that
really should be of some concern to them. In the concentration
camp example mentioned previously, it was clear that
occurrences in a virtual world can have such deep real-world
implications to a player that it can break that player out from
the deepest levels of immersion and make them think, “whoa!”
This is something that can’t but concern designers. Unless
you’re trying to make some kind of provocative artistic
statement102, it’s not supposed to happen. Players want to be
immersed and designers covenant with them to deliver this
immersion; if something within the virtual world shakes them
out of their immersion, it’s cause for concern.
If a player loses immersion like this, it’s because they have a
problem with something in the virtual world. The virtual world
falls short of the standards the player expected of it. Those
standards could have to do with the world’s physics,
appearance, or performance, but in the concentration camp case
it’s far worse: It’s an ethical issue. Bugs just show incompetence,
102 Which for most virtual worlds would run counter to what the player was
expecting so much that merely making such a statement would itself be a
statement.
280 Chapter 3
and can quickly be fixed; poor ethics show poor principles, and
they aren’t so easily forgotten.
Ethics are so important that they get a whole chapter of this
book to themselves, Chapter 8, “Coda: Ethical Considerations.”
Don’t expect answers—ethical issues are all questions.
I’ll wrap up this discussion about the intrusion of reality into
virtual worlds with a celebrated and oft-republished story from
LegendMUD.
A Story About a Tree
A Story About a Tree103 is an eloquent rebuttal by Raph Koster of
the suggestion that a virtual world is “just a game.” It concerns
a player called Karyn.
In real life, Karyn was from Norway, but she found a virtual
home in LegendMUD. She soon made friends, and would
sometimes bring friends of her own along (although their
English wasn’t always all that good, and she often had to
translate). After a while, she set up a web site about LegendMUD,
on which she posted a few pictures of herself (she was very
photogenic; unsurprisingly, as she was a former Miss Norway).
She became more and more integrated into the virtual
community, until eventually she started a guild, “the Norse
Traders.” With much effort, she built up this into one of the
most popular and well-known guilds in the whole game. The
ties between its members were strong, and so were the
friendships that developed.
103 The original essay is at
http://www.legendmud.org/raph/gaming/essay1.html.
Players 281
One day, some of her friends realized they hadn’t seen her
around for a while. They checked her web site, and found to
their dismay a message from her parents. Karyn had died two
months earlier in a head-on collision while test-driving a new
car. There was a copy on the site of a news item (in Norwegian)
describing the accident.
There was an immediate outpouring of grief in LegendMUD.
Emails were dispatched, players who hadn’t been around for
months logged in to share their sorrow. A memorial service was
held, and a garden or remembrance created. In that garden was
planted a tree, bearing a plaque: “In memory of Karyn.”
Two things disconcerted the players.
Firstly, how could they feel a genuine sense of loss at the death
of someone they had never actually met? Many of them found it
hard to articulate their reasons, but eventually it was
recognized that Karyn hadn’t been just someone they “gamed
with,” she’d been a vibrant part of their community.
Secondly, the grief came at the wrong time. “The Norse Traders”
had fallen apart two months earlier, and no one had thought
why. It was obvious now, of course—its heart had been torn
away. The community had felt Karyn’s loss when she stopped
logging in, but only now understood it.
Karyn’s tree stands in LegendMUD to this day. It stands there as
a memorial to a much-loved human being, but that it was
erected at all is a testament to the realization among the
players—as individuals—that they weren’t merely “playing a
game.” The grief they felt was real; virtual relationships are real;
virtual communities are real.
Virtual worlds are not “just games.”
282 Chapter 3
A Story About a Tree is not unique. In MUD2 there is a Dally
Lane, named after the man responsible for bringing it out of
academia and into the real world, Simon Dally. Simon was
popular not only as an administrator and a player, but also as a
human being. When he suffered from a bout of manic
depression and committed suicide, the grief felt among the
players of both MUD1 and MUD2 was as intense as that for
Karyn in LegendMUD.
So why did I present A Story About a Tree here when I could have
written A Story About a Road and not have my abridged prose
suffer in comparison to Raph’s powerful original?
Let’s look at that opening paragraph again and compare it
against the classic indicators for masquerading that I listed
earlier:
In real life, Karyn (BONG!) was from Norway (BONG!), but she
found a virtual home in LegendMUD. She soon made friends, and
would sometimes bring friends of her own along (BONG!)
(although their English wasn’t always all that good, and she
often had to translate). After a while, she set up a web site
(BONG!) about LegendMUD, upon which she posted a few
pictures of herself (she was very photogenic; unsurprisingly, as
she was a former Miss Norway (BONG!)).
That’s a lot of BONG!s. Add the guild and the violent death, and
Karyn starts to look more than a little suspect.
Before any angry players of LegendMUD email me104 to say that
they met Karyn in real life and know for sure she was a real
person, I should mention that it’s only the abstract principle I’m
concerned with here. The events of A Story About a Tree
104 Richard@mud.co.uk
Players 283
happened in 1998, so people have had plenty of time to check the
facts105. The point is that even though Karyn almost certainly
was whom she said she was, it’s easy to see how, in some other
virtual world, someone with her story might not have been real.
There could be some unKaryn in some unLegendMUD who was
truly a fictional construct.
I wouldn’t doubt that the grief felt by these unLegendMUD
players was real. I wouldn’t doubt that many of the people who
experienced that grief would be deeply offended by the mere
suggestion that unKaryn might have been bogus. It doesn’t
undermine the basic point, though.
I’ve seen players fall in love with other players who turned out
to be inventions. I’ve seen a player get close to another player
who was the creation of two people playing together because
they could only afford one account (fortunately they aborted
when they realized what was happening). There are complex
factors at work here.
A Story About a Tree shows that players can have real
relationships with people whom they have never met. The
masquerade corollary shows that it’s also possible for players to
have real relationships with people who are imaginary.
In virtual worlds106, people are constructs in the minds of other
people; relationships between people exist only in the minds of
individuals.
In the end, creating constructs in the minds of players is what a
designer’s job is all about.
105 I ought to mention here that I’m not one of those people. All I know about
Karyn is A Story About a Tree.
106 Heavy-duty philosophers and their followers might argue that this applies
to the real world, too.
284 Chapter 3
Community
So far in this chapter, I’ve been talking about players as
individuals, at a “psychological” level. Now it’s time to look at
collections of individuals, at a “sociological” level. The object of
study increases in size from individual to group to community
to society. In virtual worlds, it’s most important to understand
individuals and community first; groups have elements of both
in them, and society implies large numbers of diverse but
interdependent communities that just don’t exist in virtual
worlds (yet).
Beginnings
When the Internet hit the headlines in the mid-1990s, there was
much talk about how important “community” was. Community
meant retention: If you had community, people would keep
coming back. I attended numerous conferences where
“community” was hailed as if it were an amazing new discovery.
Big name executives of games companies’ newly formed online
divisions drummed in the idea that community was
IMPORTANT. They didn’t know anything else about it, of course,
but they knew it was IMPORTANT.
They were right, of course: Community is important. So is
money, but my knowing that doesn’t help me get it into my
bank account. Identifying a problem doesn’t solve it.
Back then, community was looked on as some kind of
commodity. “Why won’t people buy our sheds over the Net? Our
web site really needs some community.” Times have changed, of
course, and business people now have a better understanding of
Players 285
when community can be used and what it delivers. However, it
can still sometimes be seen as a commodity.
Virtual world developers are pretty good in this respect, as it
happens, because most of them have played virtual worlds
themselves and have first-hand experience of what membership
of an “online community” implies. They partition community/
customer and relations/service/management into a separate
division and try to staff it with people who know what they’re
doing107
.
The big issues concern responsibility: If the community
managers want a change made to the way that the virtual world
works (perhaps to correct some perceived imbalance by the
players) but the designers don’t want to make it (because they
feel it undermines the integrity of the virtual world), then who
wins? In theory it should be the designers, because they are the
only people able to account for the virtual world as a whole; in
practice, it’s often the community managers, because they can
show company high-ups actual short-term data to support their
arguments (designers can only really say long-term “trust us”).
Experienced developers have policy documents in place to
ensure that a balance between knee-jerk compromise and
grandiose vision is achieved.
So, what is community? Interesting though this question is, it
doesn’t actually matter to designers—community is what they
get, whether or not they like it! The more pressing questions are
107 Even at the height of its community management problems, EverQuest’s
players had few complaints about individual, street-level representatives.
They just hated the guys at the top who made all the bad decisions. Indeed,
there’s a growing feeling among community management teams that having
a thick-skinned individual to take the flak for screw-ups is a good idea, as it
gives players a name at whom to vent their emotions but keeps the relations
with the rest of the live team good.
286 Chapter 3
what kind of community should the virtual world have, and how
should designers set about ensuring it has it?
Unfortunately, communities are 20% nature and 80% nurture.
Designers set up the nature—the conditions that allow a
community to develop along certain lines. The members of the
community (influenced to varying degrees by the community
management team) perform the nurture—how the community
develops. Even identical incarnations of virtual worlds will
usually end up having recognizably different communities.
For many small virtual worlds (such as college MUDs),
communities are already there at the beginning: A bunch of
people from an existing virtual world decide to set up their own,
or an enthusiastic individual does so and calls on real-world
friends to take a look. The community that develops is
sufficiently small so that administrators can directly influence
its disposition. For a large-scale virtual world, however, it’s a
different story. Complete strangers will be coming together.
How will this community develop?
Here’s how it works.
The virtual world reaches a point where it needs to be betatested. Invitations to the closed beta are sent out, and a small
group of players signs up. The primary aim is for them to test
for balance and bugs; the secondary aim is to create a marketing
buzz about the virtual world so people will be eager to try it. As
time passes, more people are admitted into the program, eager
to see the virtual world and put it through its paces. The world
goes into open beta, accumulating yet more players; thus, when
it finally launches, the developers can be fairly sure that
Players 287
everything will work and that there’ll already be an established
player base108
.
So where does the community originate? You can’t simply
“create it;” it has to grow from relationships formed between
players. Which players? The beta-testers: They are the ones who
will establish the social norms, the culture, and the ethos of the
virtual world; they seed the community109. It would make sense,
therefore, for a virtual world to pack its beta with responsible
individuals who exhibit the kind of mature attitude that will
lead to a vibrant and prosperous community. Gung-ho, hardcore, hit-it-till-it-breaks beta-testers are therefore perhaps not
the best choice from this perspective.
Here’s how to seed a community badly, which happens to
coincide with the industry standard model for graphical virtual
game worlds:
• Recruit the hard-core players of other games as beta-testers,
so you only get the ones with low product loyalty who’ll
leave your game the moment a newer one comes along. Go
for guild leaders who might bring their whole guild with
them.
• Enthuse them to create a buzz about your game on supercritical fan sites read mainly by people who need
108 Small virtual worlds often have problems attaining a critical mass of
players. If a prospective player arrives and finds the world empty, they’ll
perhaps potter around for a few minutes but then leave. A second
prospective player arriving five minutes later will do the same thing. Critical
mass means that there are enough players for prospective players to feel the
world is alive. Exact numbers depend on the nature of the virtual world; the
longer prospective players can be persuaded to hang around on their own
before meeting someone, the smaller the critical mass for that virtual world
will be.
109 Seeding is also known as preloading.
288 Chapter 3
reassurance that the game they play is no worse than any of
the others.
• Create a web site for your own game that won’t be read by
any of the people who’ll eventually play it.
• Listen to the beta-testers, so as to make your game exactly
like the games they first played against which all others pale
in comparison.
• Hey presto! You have a virtual world primed with just the
kind of players you don’t want!
Designers can’t do a lot about how a community is born, or even
how it is fostered, but they control its environment. They can
encourage and discourage particularly desirable or undesirable
activities, and although their ability to force an issue is limited,
nevertheless they do have a considerable part to play.
If they’re to do it right, of course, they need to have a reasonable
analytic model of how communities work.
Levels of Community
Joe Newbie arrives at a virtual world. He’s not there alone—
people are busy, they come and go, the whole place looks
vibrant. He quickly picks up the basics of the user interface he’s
using, and feels a little awkward. He’s new, he doesn’t know the
ropes, he doesn’t want to make a fool of himself asking a dumb
question. Yet he’s eager to participate, to let people know he’s
there. What does he do?
Well, perhaps emboldened by the realization that no one knows
who he is, and that character creation wasn’t so painful that
he’d hate to do it again, he makes the first move and regales a
passer-by. Or perhaps a community representative is on greeter
duty and comes over to break the ice. Or perhaps there’s a
newbie hose and suddenly standing right next to him is Joanna
Players 289
Newbie, whom he can speak to because she’s in exactly the same
situation as he is.
The ability to communicate is the entrance qualification for a
community. Everyone who can communicate shares a (very
loose) community with everyone with whom they can
communicate.
As to what they communicate about, that depends. In the first
example here, Joe Newbie just wants to communicate, period. In
the second example, he may have some procedural questions he
can ask of the community management rep, but it’ll be at the
level of polite conversation; to the rep, Joe is just the latest in a
long line of newbies, and it’s impossible to form strong ties with
all of them. In the third example, though, Joe and Joanna share a
context. Both are in an enticing new world that they want to
explore but don’t fully understand, while surrounded by people
who know a lot more than they do. It’s daunting, but it’ll be
easier if they team up. They have a shared interest: Joe can talk
to Joanna because they’re both in the same boat.
Greeters have three aims: to reassure newbies; to ensure they
understand the basics of how to play; to introduce them to the
community. If they can hook them up with another newbie, so
much the better. What happens thereafter is up to the players
themselves.
A lot of work has been done on the notion of community in the
real world. It’s important to architects, anthropologists, aid
workers, ad companies (and those are just the A’s). Unlike most
of the topics important for virtual worlds, the study of
community has a solid body of work behind it. For designers,
the problem is therefore the pleasant one of distilling salient
points from a wealth of theory.
290 Chapter 3
Here are the basics of community. Communities are groups of
people who:
• Have the means and opportunity to communicate with
one another.
• Have some reason for communicating with one another.
• Share a cultural context.
• Can choose the degree to which they participate in the
community.
• Can be in other communities at the same time.
Members of communities have to have the ability to
communicate (to talk), the chance to communicate (they’re in
the same location as someone who can hear), and some grounds
to communicate (to find something out)110. They must share a
cultural context, so what they say will be understood (they have
to speak the same language). Communities have voluntary
participation—you can put as much into them as you want to—
and their memberships overlap.
Virtual world designers have understood all this for some time,
at least at an intuitive level, and they routinely look for ways to
further it in their games. They add new communication
commands, new management tools, new ways to enable friends
to find each other, and new dimensions along which players can
group.
These criteria outline what a community is; all communities
must have them to some extent. There are other features that
communities often have, but that they don’t necessarily have to
have; the more they do have, though, the stronger the
community is. From a virtual world perspective, the most
important of these characteristics are:
110 Or “means, motive, and opportunity” if you’re into detective fiction.
Players 291
• Members have a shared pool of knowledge.
• Members adhere to common practices.
• The community has a history.
• Members share a vision of the community’s future.
• Members work together on projects that are for the benefit
of the community.
This list is more useful from a designer’s point of view, because
it suggests concrete ways to encourage communities to be
strong. We’ll look at some of these shortly.
Strong communities are desirable because the stronger the
bonds between people, the less likely they are to want to break
those bonds (for example, by going off and playing someone
else’s virtual world). It may therefore appear that pushing
community heavily is an indication that a virtual world doesn’t
have enough gameplay to sustain it, however this is not the
case: Community is a good thing to have no matter how
compelling the content of a virtual world is. That said, when
community-friendliness extends to significantly undermining
gameplay, that is a warning sign that a virtual world is in
trouble.
Community “strength” is described in terms of levels of
community. How many levels there are depends on what you
want to use them for, and some levels are more important than
others for particular applications. For the purposes of virtual
worlds, however, there are five levels, the first of which is trivial
but I’ll mention it anyway.
In increasing strength:
• Communication
• Community of interest
• Community of practice
292 Chapter 3
• Community of commitment
• Spiritual community
You get communication by default in virtual worlds; merely by
showing up, you’re communicating something. The first “proper”
type of community is the community of interest, wherein people
with the same individual goals and interests group together as a
means of furthering those aims. Mechanisms for pooling and
sharing knowledge and information develop, leading to a
community of practice. An important emergent property of this
is that members start to view the community as offering more
than simply a means to an end, but of having intrinsic value
itself. Community members then begin to work together on
projects that are important to the aims or shared vision of the
community, investing significant time and effort for the benefit
of the community as a whole: This gives a community of
commitment. The final stage, the spiritual community, arises
when individual members understand and trust each other so
implicitly that they can communicate almost intuitively. At this
level, the personal bonds between members are supremely
strong. Most communities never reach this level.
For example, suppose after sitting down playing computer
games for too long, you decided it was time to get into shape.
You go to a gym and sign up. Even if you were there to clean the
floors, you’d be able to talk to anyone and they to you, so at the
very least you’re in a communication community. The
instructors show you and other newcomers the pieces of
apparatus available, and you set to work. Everyone else there
wants to get fit or keep fit, so they have the same goals as you:
You’re in a community of interest. The instructors and some of
the longer-term members give you tips on how to tone up your
abdomen or whatever, and warnings if you’re doing something
wrong. In so doing, you form friendships with some of them.
This puts you in a community of practice. One evening, at a
dinner party with a few of your friends from the gym, someone
Players 293
mentions that the gym isn’t really used much during the day.
Someone else says there must be schools or charities that could
make use of the facilities; after all, helping people become fit is
always a good thing. Someone on the gym’s management
committee suggests a feasibility study. You volunteer to contact
the nearby hospital’s physiotherapy unit to see if it would be
interested, another friend says they’ll look into any potential
problems with insurers, and pretty soon everyone is involved.
It’s now a community of commitment. In the months of fighting
local bureaucracy that follows, the team suffers several major
setbacks; individuals rally to the support of each other, though,
which serves to strengthen their relationships further.
Eventually, when the first of many batches of underprivileged
teenagers arrives for their session, you know exactly how
everyone who helped organize it is feeling—it’s as if you shared
emotions. You have a spiritual community.
It’s clear from this example that not only can a community be at
different levels, but that it can be at different levels at the same
time. While long-term members of a community of
commitment are out there doing their bit, newbies are arriving
who have some definite personal reason for being there that has
nothing to do with any grandiose schemes for advancing the
community’s aims. To be strictly accurate, of course, the
broader community consists of a number of smaller
communities that constantly shift, change, and overlap.
Whether you treat these sub-communities as distinct from the
community as a whole or not is up to you: It makes sense to look
at communities both ways, depending on the context.
Looking just at community levels, virtual world designers are
presented with a number of opportunities to strengthen the
bonds between players. The boundaries between the different
levels of community are particularly fruitful.
294 Chapter 3
For example, for people to join a community of interest, they
must find other people who share that interest: A matchmaking
service to connect players who are looking for a group with
groups who are looking for new members is one way of doing
this. Allowing groups to own property, keep archives, and
institute a formal structure will encourage the development of
communities of practice. Communities of commitment will
arise if groups are afforded goals that are distinct from the goals
of individuals. Spiritual communities will evolve if groups are
put under immense emotional pressure.
There are two important points to bear in mind if you want to
try this sort of thing.
Firstly, remember that participation in groups is a voluntary
thing. If players can’t get anywhere unless they’re in a group,
you’re effectively forcing them to join a group. Players should be
able to spend time on their own if they feel like it. Explorers may
want to discuss what they’ve found out after a hard day’s
experimenting, but they probably won’t want to have to hook up
with six other people just to do the experimenting.
Secondly, the order is important! Putting a community of
interest under severe stress is only going to scatter it most of
the time. Use smaller conflicts as filters so that the riskiest
situations are only available for those groups mature enough to
handle them.
Even in the right order, stress might have unacceptable
consequences. A community of commitment is usually strong
enough to stay together for the most part when the going gets
tough, but there is fallout; it’s in repairing the emotional
damage that spiritual communities can arise, but if that means
some players fall by the wayside and quit, is it really
worthwhile? In the real world, army units often form spiritual
Players 295
communities under fire111, but no sane army commander is
going to bomb their own troops just to build a sense of
camaraderie.
Levels of community reflect the relationships between
community members. Ultimately, therefore, they depend on the
individuals concerned. No matter how much designers or
community relations staff might encourage players to form
stronger bonds, some people (perhaps most people) are just too
independent. Communities of practice are relatively easy to
achieve, but as soon as players have to commit to doing
something for the community (rather than for themselves),
many will balk. Some players relish the opportunity to organize
others, but a good many more don’t—and some of these will
only reluctantly agree to be organized by anyone at all.
When designers are designing for community, they are really
designing for relationships. In Dark Age of Camelot, players who
want to join a group can flag themselves as being available. In
the real world, people who don’t want to find a partner can flag
themselves as being unavailable (by wearing a wedding ring).
The defaults are different, but the purpose is the same: to signal
availability or otherwise to prospective suitors.
Groups emerge from the interactions of people; communities
emerge from the interactions of people in groups; societies
emerge from the interactions of people in communities.
Interactions are at the heart of all this. Communities are a very
useful conceptualization for virtual worlds, just as long as the
fact they’re made up of people isn’t forgotten.
It’s a friendship thing.
111
296 Chapter 3
An Analogy
The reason that virtual world designers find viewing the player
base in terms of communities useful is four-fold.
• Community ties rank among the most powerful reasons
for players to stay with a virtual world. They generate
intangible content, but can be aided in tangible ways.
• The sheer number of players in some virtual worlds
makes it impractical to consider players at a personal
level. It’s easier to reach communities than individuals.
• Players frequently act in groups. If you look at them as
individuals the whole time, you miss what’s going on
(“you can’t see the woods for the trees”).
• Communities act analogously to players. Many of the
things designers know about players can be applied to
communities.
We’ve looked briefly at the first of these, and will look at it some
more. The second item is purely pragmatic—we have to live
with it, but it doesn’t really tell us anything. The third makes a
good point; furthermore, because there is an existing body of
work on this subject, designers can adapt and apply what has
been learned in other fields to virtual worlds. The fourth item,
which I’ll address now, is a way that designers can use work in
their own field to think about communities.
Put simply, levels of community are analogous to stages of
player progression. Look back at Figure 3.6:
• Players start as instinctives. They go in all directions at
once to find the limits of what they can do. A community
of interest behaves the same way, all members pushing
their own interests to determine its boundaries.
• Next, players become learners. They embark on a process
of discovery to find out more about what interests them.
Players 297
A community of practice is similar, its members pooling
what they know to increase the knowledge of the
community as a whole.
• After this, players become doers. They apply what they
have learned to better themselves. This is like a
community of commitment, where members work
together on projects for the benefit of the community,
rather than for the (immediate) benefit of themselves.
• Finally, players become experts and communities
become spiritual. Both have fully internalized their
experiences.
This is only an analogy: Communities resemble players in some
respects, but are very different in others. The two aren’t tied
together, either—it’s perfectly possible to have scientist-type
players in a spiritual community and hacker-type ones in a
community of interest, for example. Communities may be
defined by their members, but the reverse does not apply.
Knowing this connection between community development and
player development, though, it’s possible to look at both with
more enlightened eyes. Player development tracks, although
they do show how players progress over time, are because of
their origins more focused on what players want at each stage
(rather than what should be provided for them to advance to the
next stage). In contrast, levels of community are mainly to do
with development—how to take the next step toward a spiritual
community (rather than how to provide for players who are
going to remain within a community at the same level for some
time). Thus, designers should be aware that they should
accommodate the stages and transition between those stages,
whether considering community or player progression or both.
There’s one final observation we can make (if not actually use).
298 Chapter 3
Player progression is closely connected with deepening
immersion. Progression of communities through increasing
levels should therefore, by analogy, be closely connected with
immersion of the community (as an entity). How, though, can a
virtual community be said to exhibit immersion? In what sense
can a spiritual community be more “in” the virtual world than a
community of interest? It can’t; but it can be said to be more in
the real world than a community of interest, because it forms
real bonds between real players.
Immersion puts the real world into the virtual; community puts
the virtual world into the real.
That’s enough community theory for the purposes of this book,
but there are plenty of places you can look if you want to learn
more. For a short introduction to levels of community, read
ethnographer Arian Ward’s succinct article, What is a
Community?112. For a longer one, which discusses virtual world
communities in terms of community studies in general, Chapter
6 of Lynn Cherny’s Conversation and Community113 is invaluable.
For a psychological perspective of virtual communities (with
particular reference to virtual worlds), explore John Suler’s
superb ongoing hypertext book, The Psychology of Cyberspace114
.
To learn more about managing virtual communities in general,
consult Amy Jo Kim’s Community Building on the Web115 or Jenny
112 For an excellent short introduction (from the point of a work-place
ethnographer), see Arian Ward, What is a Community?
http://www.workfrontiers.com/what_is_community.htm.
113 Cherny, Lynn, Conversation and Community: Chat in a Virtual World.
Stanford, CLSI, 1999.
114 Suler, John, The Psychology of Cyberspace.
http://www.rider.edu/users/suler/psycyber/ psycyber.html, 1996 (orig.).
115 Kim, Amy Jo, Community Building on the Web. Berkeley, Peachpit Press,
2000.
Players 299
Preece’s Online Communities116, both of which make reference to
virtual worlds. If you just want a broad but thought-provoking
overview of what virtual communities are, Howard Rheingold’s
The Virtual Community117 is still required reading.
Now let’s see if we can apply some of what we’ve learned here.
Influence Through Design
Virtual world design is about consequences. Every decision that
a designer makes will have effects; some effects will be
desirable, some will be undesirable, and some will be
unforeseen. The direct consequences of a design decision can
often be made with a high degree of certainty: If you give
players lock-picking skills that go from 0 to 100 and create
certain locks that require a skill of 110 to pick, you can be fairly
sure that the integrity of those locks will not be compromised
unless someone gets hold of the key you’ve given to the boss
mobile. The indirect consequences may be trickier to predict:
Will thief-class characters ignore lock-picking skills and max
out pickpocketing instead so they can steal the keys they need?
Making judgments about the likely reactions of players is
difficult, even with behavioral models to help. Designers have
total control with regard to the tangible aspects of a virtual
world, but with intangibles they can only hope to influence
players, not to force them (which is probably just as well). Thus,
designers present their most favored options favorably and
116 Preece, Jenny, Online Communities: Designing Usability, Supporting
Sociability. New York, Wiley, 2000.
117 Rheingold, Howard, The Virtual Community. London, Secker & Warburg,
1994.
300 Chapter 3
their most unfavored options unfavorably, but ultimately
players decide for themselves what to do.
Immersion and community are the great intangibles. How can
designers influence them?
Churn, Sink, and Drift
Churn is the rate at which people leave a virtual community.
The greater the level of community, the lower the churn,
because the stronger the bonds that hold the community
together. Most churn occurs in a newbie’s early days: They play,
decide they don’t like the virtual world, and leave. This cause of
churn is called sink: Newbies show up, play a little, don’t like it,
and sink without trace. They may flit into a few communities,
but none of these gain enough of a hold. (Indeed, they may
loosen them: The virtual world itself might be compelling but
have thoroughly obnoxious players.)
If players take a bite of a virtual world and decide they like the
taste, they’ll stay longer. For most commercial virtual worlds,
there’s a formal start to this: When their free suck-it-and-see
starter period runs out and they have to commit to paying a
monthly fee. From this point, they’ll only leave the virtual world
if there are real-world reasons (e.g., they get married) or because
they lose interest in the virtual world. This cause of churn is
called drift.
Contrary to what many players and some community managers
believe, most established players do not leave after blazing,
public rows. Most of them simply disconnect and drift away.
Players who complain the loudest care the most; they’re
complaining because they see faults that they perceive as a
threat to their world and their community, so of course they’re
not going to leave! They may threaten to leave, and may even act
Players 301
on that threat, but in most cases they’re back within two weeks
if they do.
No, most players—the “silent majority”—simply drift away
without a word. They appear less and less frequently, until
eventually they don’t appear at all. For a commercial virtual
world, players may have to cancel their subscription explicitly
for a break to become formal—a decision they’re often reluctant
to make because of the investment they’ve made in their
characters (it amounts to killing them). However, eventually the
bonds fade so much that even this is not important any more.
Virtual world designers usually want to do as much as they can
to minimize both sink and drift. Much sink is often impossible
to address, being the result of marketing (direct, indirect, or
viral) that draws to the virtual world people who simply aren’t
ever going to like it. Beyond that, the more barriers to entry
there are, the fewer people will care to surmount them; a virtual
world with a beautiful character creation system still needs an
“auto” button so that people who just want to play have the
opportunity to do so.
Strategies for inveigling players after they’ve made it through
the door include giving them a mentor the moment they’ve
caught their breath, showing them “wow!” environmental
effects within five minutes and rewarding them for absolutely
anything they do. Good help facilities, easy early goals, and
gentle hand-holding will increase the chance that they’ll make
the decision to stay for a while; I’ll mention a few others later in
this book.
For most virtual worlds, the newbie experience is not all that
great, however. It can be argued that this may be good in the
long term, as it means that those players who persevere really
do like the world and are therefore worth investing time in;
unfortunately, if three times this number of newbies are put off
302 Chapter 3
who would have grown to like the world had they spent longer
in it, filtering in such a manner isn’t necessarily a wonderful
idea.
Sink is about why people want to play virtual worlds; drift is
about why they stop wanting to play them.
Immersion and community are the hooks that pull people in and
the anchors that keep them there. Both can be used to address
sink and drift. Remember, though, that they aren’t themselves
the core issues, they’re just expressions of them. Immersion is a
freedom thing; community is a friendship thing. Freedom and
friendship are what designers should really be concerned with;
immersion and community are convenient visualizations that
can be used to overlay structure on the two more fundamental
concepts.
With that in mind, we can look at specific ways for designers to
influence community development and individual immersion.
Influencing Community Development
The first decision that designers must make in looking at their
virtual world in terms of community is how large they want
their community to be. The rule of thumb here is that beyond
250 members, a community of interest is going to fragment into
sub-communities of sub-interests no matter what you do (and
most fragment much sooner118). Most communities will be
communities of interest and/or practice, with overlapping
118 An analysis of community sizes in Reality suggests that 150 is the
maximum, but it could be that virtual worlds (in which people aren’t always
present) have a wider penumbra. For an in-depth discussion of groups in
virtual worlds, see Raph Koster, Small Worlds: Competitive and Co-operative
Structures in Online Worlds. San Jose, Proceedings Computer Game Developers’
Conference, 2003.
http:// www.legendmud.org/raph/gaming/smallworlds_files/frame.htm.
Players 303
subcommunities of commitment. Very few spiritual
communities will exist, and when they do they’ll be very small
(just a handful of players).
If you’re looking at a large user base, therefore, the question
becomes: How large do you want your basic communities of
interest and practice to be?
Large communities are:
• More robust. In times of stress they can spin off smaller
communities instead of shattering.
• Easier for newbies to join. They have more people out
recruiting.
• More accommodating. There’s always “room for one
more.”
• Fewer in number. You don’t have to provide so many
interests about which they can form.
• Easier to merchandise to. Sell 50 baseball caps instead of 5.
• Easier to link to reality. People visit their web sites and
attend their meets.
• More powerful. Therefore their actions are more dramatic.
• Inclusive. Socializers and achievers prefer them.
Small communities are:
• More intense. Someone who is 10% of a community has a
bigger say than someone who is 1% of it.
• Quicker to develop. Fewer people make for a more
streamlined passage through community levels.
• Friendlier. Newbies are treated by all members at a
personal level.
• Less fractious. If a small community erupts into civil war,
fewer people are caught in the crossfire.
• More diverse. The special interests are more special.
304 Chapter 3
• Exclusive. Killers and explorers prefer them.
Of course, you’ll get a range of community sizes whatever you
do; your influence comes in pushing the bell curve toward larger
or smaller communities.
You can do this in two ways: By providing or failing to provide
in-context community management tools for the players
(bigger communities need more tools, therefore if you don’t give
them these tools it’s harder to keep such communities
coherent); by setting the natural lines of partition. In general,
failing to provide tools for no reason other than you don’t want
players to use them is a bad idea. Partitioning is therefore the
favored approach for determining average community size.
Lines of partition vary. The most obvious (because of the way
basic communication works in virtual worlds) is to use
geographic partitioning. Players who are in the same
communication space, with access to the same kind of resources
and experiences as other people in that space, will find it easier
to form communities with one another than with people in
spaces that are remote. Therefore, by providing boundaries to
spaces a designer can foment community within the population
penned in by the space.
Examples of geographic boundaries (in decreasing strength) are
• Physical. Walls, impassable mountains.
• Resource-based. Expensive boat rides, hard-to-find single-use
keys.
• Mental. Tiresome-to-cross forests and deserts.
• Relative. Your magical powers diminish as you move further
from your mana source.
Players 305
The most popular119 way to effect partitions is by functionality.
This comes in two flavors: Those who have similar functions
(mages all join the mages’ guild) and those who have
complementary functions (someone to take damage, someone to
cause damage, someone to repair damage). The former tends to
lead to large, clearing-house communities of interest that then
form sub-communities (while remaining part of the community
as a whole); the latter will lead to smaller communities of
commitment fairly rapidly.
In theory it’s possible to take any tangible property of a
character and use it as a basis for forming a community. It’s
conceivable to have communities based on character gender,
character race, character strength, color of character’s hair,
whether the character’s name begins with J—the list is endless.
In practice, though, only character experience happens often
enough to be significant: Relative newbies will often join with
other relative newbies on the basis that they can’t join up with
anyone else. Although mixed-ability groups are possible,
providing mixed-ability content for them is awkward, so many
designers prefer players to hang out with their peers anyway.
These are communities formed about in-context interests, of
course. Many communities form for out-of-context reasons.
There may, for example, be communities of real-life friends, of
people who speak some foreign language, of fans of some TV
series, or of people who share the same real-life gender120. There
is little that designers can do to stop such communities from
forming, even though they can spoil immersion for nonmembers (and for members, too).
119 Because it’s a by-product of other design decisions that designers often
make.
120 Interestingly, although groups of female-only players aren’t a staggeringly
unusual sight, groups that deny entry based on real-life ethnicity are as rare
as fish feathers.
306 Chapter 3
Partitions can be formal or informal. Formal partitions are ones
that the virtual world provides itself, hardwired in. Most
geographic partitioning is formal, although the weaker ones can
be informal. Functional partitioning can be both. Typically, a
virtual world will come with some prefabricated placeholders
for communities that the designer wants or that the fiction
demands. For example, all villages may be defined to have a
“leader” office, the holder of which is responsible for setting
local rates and deciding on what to spend the resulting income.
The purpose of this role might be to give politician-type players
something to shoot for, but because leaders are elected by other
players121 a “natural” pressure for a geographic community of
interests exists. This would be a formal partition. Alternatively,
a group of players may get together and become bandits,
raiding plump wagon trains. They, too, will choose a leader. This
would be an informal partition. The designer may have
deliberately created plump wagon trains with the intention of
inciting players to become bandits, but unless there’s a tangible,
bandit-specific construct involved, the community of bandits is
informal.
Communities made up of members with complementary
functionality are generally informal, but there is often a
“winning formula” that ensures they gravitate toward a
common make-up. By careful composition of gameplay
elements122, designers can predefine roles without necessarily
hardwiring them. The fighter/magic-user/cleric triple may be
classic, but it’s not the only possibility even for combat (the real
world’s traditional infantry/cavalry/archer triple is arguably
better for gameplay purposes, as it’s more stone/paper/scissors).
121 Non-player characters are usually either disenfranchised or statistical
aggregates.
122 Or, more usually, by evolution based on blind chance discoveries.
Players 307
The point, though, is that by engineering a need for team play at
this level—whatever the roles involved – designers can
encourage players to seek out members to complete their team.
This means unattached players are actively sought out and
brought into communities, rather than left to mope around
until someone takes pity on them. Once the team is formed, the
barriers go up and its members are relatively insulated from
social contact with members of other teams; this usually leads
to the speedy formation of a community of commitment. The
approach can work spectacularly well (see EverQuest), but
suffers in that not everyone wants to play as a team the whole
time.
Another decision that designers need to make concerning their
groups is how modular or intertwined to make them. If players
can be members of more than one community, that gives them
multiple possibilities for finding the one that’s right for them.
More cynically, it gives them multiple reasons for not leaving. If
communities are modular, the argument goes that they provide
a hot-house atmosphere, with nowhere for players to go to cool
down, therefore disputes come to a head and are resolved
rapidly instead of brewing for weeks. Thus, they will grow to a
spiritual level that much more quickly. Unfortunately, if a
community is modular then it can leave a virtual world as a
module if its members so decide, setting itself up in some other
virtual world instead.
To entwine communities is fairly easy once you’ve made the
decision to do it: You simply provide orthogonal interests that
some members of a community might share but that others
won’t. A player may bond most tightly to their regular party
members, but also have friends in the fighters’ guild, the army,
the swordsmith co-operative, the Northlands expatriates club
and the glove collectors’ society. If you want to encourage some
of them further, build formal hierarchies that have
308 Chapter 3
preconfigured cross-links (“Sorry, we only buy old swords from
members of the fighters’ guild”).
To modularize communities is easier in one sense, in that it
means less design work overall, but it’s quite hard to achieve in
practice because of the constraints it imposes on the rest of the
design of the virtual world. The DikuMUD paradigm of party
roles (as exemplified by EverQuest) is one way, and the fealty
hierarchy of Asheron’s Call is another. The key is to stop players
from “leaking out” of their tight little groups without stifling
them to the extent that they feel they’ve joined some weird
mind-control cult. Unfortunately, the more variety a designer
provides, the greater the urge players have to pursue disparate
interests. EverQuest overcame this by having one overarching
interest (kill things to get stuff so you can kill more things).
Asheron’s Call attempted it by not providing mechanisms for
players to organize outside the central hierarchy, but found to
its cost that this caused frustration and resentment. It’s one
thing to provide only carrots to eat, quite another to provide a
variety of food but only let people eat the carrots.
Big communities will hold together better if they have
structure. Structure will also help formal communities come
into being, as it gives them a framework to flesh out. On the
other hand, structured communities can’t always form in an
impromptu fashion and their overt lack of equality is a barrier
to achieving spiritual level. Designers realize that structure is
important for communities and will often provide a number of
methods by which groups can be formed, merged, and
unformed, by which positions can be created and players
promoted, demoted, or shifted sideward, and by which members
can be admitted or expelled. Communication channels, group
ownership of property and bank accounts, group-specific
iconography—all these can be added to help structure. The only
caveat is that it should still be possible for groups not to have
structure if they don’t want it. A bunch of mages who meet in a
Players 309
pub and decide on the spur of the moment to go off and try to
take down some trolls without a tank, just for the hell of it, don’t
want to have to buy a guildhouse in order to get a private
communications channel to use.
Chapter 5 discusses different ideas for formal and informal
hierarchies and other social arrangements that can be used to
help crystallize communities about them. For now, though, we’ll
conclude our look at communities by considering ways to
promote community in general.
Ways to Promote Community
Having ways to shape communities is all well and good, but you
need to have communities in the first place. Communities will
form whether or not you want them to, of course, but except in
very particular cases (for example, psychological or
anthropological studies) you should do everything you can to
promote them. Note that’s “promote,” not “force.”
Here are some suggestions.
Communication
The more that people communicate, the more they will develop
relationships. The more relationships that develop, the stronger
the community becomes. Remember that it’s individual
friendships that are important: Community is just an emergent
consequence of these friendships.
Provide channels. Let people receive messages by their names,
their locations, their character’s properties, the groups they’re
members of, by topic—the more the merrier. Let them do it
using real-time typing, through message boards, through
email— however you can. Let them opt out of channels that
don’t interest them so they can focus on the ones that do. If
310 Chapter 3
none of this fits with the virtual world fiction, change the fiction.
It’s that important.
Supply ways for them to exhibit non-verbal cues. Studies of real
life communication always show the importance of body
language, facial cues, tone of voice, and so on at conveying
meaning. People will use gestures while on the phone, even
though the person at the other end can’t see them, because it
helps them express their thoughts. You can’t take such things
into the virtual world, but you can provide substitutes that
allow for players to articulate themselves without using words.
Use “smile,” “weep,” and every expression of emotion in between
that you can find in your thesaurus. If they need tangible effects
to support them, add these. Include modifiers, so you can “annoy
Gilead” or “praise Gilead.” Allow adverbs, “say ‘hi there’
sarcastically.” Put in freeform emotes/poses: It doesn’t matter if
your graphical world can’t depict “emote bares his fangs in a
gesture of territorial defiance,” just let the guy type it. MUD2
has used emoticons, :-), as commands for years. Look at other
people’s virtual worlds for ideas.
Filtered Communication
This isn’t as important as communication itself, but by allowing
communication itself to be a topic of communication, further
communication can be stimulated. Communication filters are
fine if they don’t remove too much meaning from the message
and don’t become the default. If your virtual world has a “say”
command, add “lisp,” “stammer,” “stutter,” and anything else
you can think of. If characters drink 10 bottles of ale, replace all
occurrences of the letter “s” in their speech with “sh.” It’s only a
diversion, but if it prompts only one conversation in 10,000 it’s
worth it.
Be very careful about adding barriers to communication. These
can be unifying if done carefully, but they also can be counterproductive. Players communicate with one another in (usually)
Players 311
English, but their characters might theoretically be speaking
Elvish. Therefore, if another character comes along who doesn’t
speak Elvish, they shouldn’t see the English (“Thorina says
something in Elvish”). Thus, the players with characters who
can speak Elvish can operate as a community closed to those
that can’t; it gives them an in-context secrecy filter that works
naturally as a community boundary.
Providing a “common tongue” that all players can speak (in
addition to one or more other in-context languages) is a way to
enable communities to form across these language barriers;
allowing characters to learn other languages is another way. If
you do decide to use language as a community partition (as Dark
Age of Camelot does between its three realms), you have to be
confident in advance that you’ll have a player base large enough
to withstand such partitioning.
Mutual Dependencies (Characters)
If characters are dependent on other characters to succeed, then
players will come to trust those characters who don’t let them
down. Bonds will be formed, and (if these are reinforced often
enough) communities will arise. All members of an adventuring
party should depend on one another to some degree, but there
are plenty of other ways to promote mutual dependencies.
Simple economic need is a favorite: Miners need blacksmiths to
buy their iron, and blacksmiths need miners to provide the raw
materials they need. This can be extended in different
directions, for example temples may need worshippers to cause
deities to give their priests powers, and worshippers may need
those priests to cure diseases, purify water, and vaporize
undead.
There’s a danger of going too far and forcing players to
maintain such a web of contacts that they never get anything
done. If you need to source 50 components to make a cart,
you’re not going to make any carts.
312 Chapter 3
Remember that the idea is to promote dependencies, not to
enforce them. Some people like being independent, and will
resent being made to rely on others. If blacksmiths want to dig
their own iron ore, it should be possible for them to do so.
The dependencies here are gameplay ones. It’s possible to create
social dependencies, but these always seem “forced;” besides,
socializers will group together anyway without prompting. The
exception is when the dependencies are between community
newbies and community oldbies. For example, suppose
characters lose status for living in a dirty city, but lose even
more status if they sweep the streets clean. Newbies, who have
no status, can clean the streets without losing status, for the
benefit of the community. It’s therefore in the interests of
oldbies to attract newbies to their city, so they don’t lose status.
The oldbies depend on the newbies (which is the reverse of the
normal state of affairs).
Coupled with the idea of dependencies, find ways to allow
players to do each other favors. Player A may not depend on
player B to achieve some goal, but player B can make it a lot
easier for player A by helping in some trivial way. Acts of
kindness are the currency of friendships.
Mutual Dependencies (Communities)
As well as dependencies between individuals, create
dependencies between communities. Again, the simplest way to
do this is economically: The elves make the bows and arrows
that the humans use to hunt boar so they can sell the meat to
the elves. It doesn’t have to be this clear cut, though: The
sorcerers and the necromancers keep apart so as not to
contaminate each other’s magic wells.
Dependencies that are threatened can give cause for conflict. If
humans cut down trees to make fires on which to roast their
Players 313
boars, this may impact the elves. If there are so many sorcerers
that a single magic well is not enough, they may need to set up a
second well nearer the necromancers.
Dependencies are about resources. Although some won’t be
physical (“the secret of fire”), most will be. Miners convert land
into iron; blacksmiths convert iron into swords; soldiers convert
swords into land. Characters can be resources: Priests convert
worshippers into powers123
.
Economics and related issues are discussed in Chapter 4, “World
Design.”
Reconnection
If you miss a session in the virtual world because your cat was
ill, the rest of your party may have moved elsewhere. How are
you going to find them? Even if you know exactly where they
are, it’s not really pleasant to spend half an hour trekking
through swampland to hook up with them.
If people are members of a community of interest, they need to
be able to communicate with one another; if it’s a community of
practice, they need to be able to access one another’s data; if it’s
a community of commitment, they need to be able to act in
concert with one another; if it’s a spiritual community, they just
need each other. The domain in which these proceedings take
place is the community space for that community. For mages
passing spell sequences between each other telepathically, all
action and interactions takes place through the telepathic
network, therefore that would be the community space. In most
cases, though, the virtual world itself is the community space. In
order to participate in a community, members need to be
proximate to the rest of the community in its community space;
123 This brings new meaning to the phrase, “preaching to the converted.”
314 Chapter 3
for virtual worlds, therefore, this means that characters must be
able to reach the same (virtual) physical location as other
members with relative ease. In other words, they have to be able
to teleport to them.
There are two main problems with this. First, it’s often fictionbreaking. If it took eight of us five hours to reach the oasis and it
took seven of us another five hours to reach the pyramid, how
come it takes one of us only five seconds to make the second half
of the journey? Magical explanations are always possible, of
course, but the players will view them as the cop-out that they
are, spoiling immersion. The second problem is that if
characters can appear anywhere at a moment’s notice it makes
everywhere local to everywhere else; this plays merry hell with
economic systems.
Fortunately, there are ways to promote connection without
screwing either the fiction or the economics too badly. These
are discussed in Chapter 5 in some detail, but they essentially
involve finessing everything through the medium of offline
action. When you’re not playing, your character is still active.
When you restart, you decide where your character traveled
during your offline period and appear there.
Jargon
Jargon consists of new (or specialized meanings for old) words,
terms, and phrases; it comes with communities of practice.
Although often seen as a barrier (if you don’t speak the
language, you’re not ready to join), jargon can be a very effective
way of making players feel they really are part of something. It
serves to draw in people: You hear someone say “rotate aggro”
Players 315
and you want to know what it means124. Acquiring the
vocabulary gives you a badge that says, “Hey, I’m one of you.”
Don’t consciously create your own jargon—let it evolve. That
way, you’ll get terms that fill a genuine need. The important
thing is to record anything that sticks, and make the record
available to players. Journalists called the jargon used by MUD1
players MUDspeke, so for MUD2 I compiled the MUDspeke
Dictionary, accessible from within the virtual world itself as an
out-of-context command125. People look up what words mean,
and can use them themselves. It helps them become accepted; it
makes them part of the club.
Don’t dismiss jargon as unimportant. Try speaking to a fellow
designer without knowing what PvP, PvE, RvR, PD, and PK
mean, and see how far you get….
Communal Activities
Sadly, players can’t gather round a camp fire and have a good
sing-song; lag, if nothing else, prevents players from acting in
concert to this degree. Nevertheless, there are things that
players can do together as (virtual) leisure activities, and
designers should support them.
For example, players like to tell stories. This doesn’t mean that
there should be a bard class and everyone should be obliged to
listen politely to their excruciating poetry. It does mean that
there should be venues and situations conducive to storytelling
and suggestions as to how to go about it. A somewhat overt
approach would be to have a Storyteller’s Hall, for example,
containing a variety of atmospheric rooms, each with a
124 It’s EverQuestish for “take it in turns to become the subject of the
attacking creature’s aggression.”
125 It’s also available at http://www.mud.co.uk/muse/speke.htm.
316 Chapter 3
Storyteller Stone that bears the legend “tell your part of the
story, then pass me on.” It’s crude, but it works.
Another example: Provide players with musical instruments.
When someone plays the instrument, generate music. It doesn’t
have to be complicated (although you can allow some MIDI-style
composition if you wish). Playing an instrument is tangible: If
someone else in the vicinity plays another instrument, you can
lock it in to the same time and rhythm as the other player, lag or
no lag. It’s possible to build up bands and orchestras this way.
Other players can dance to the music. They’re communal
activities that serve no gameplay purpose (although one could
be devised). They’re popular because they bring people together.
Asheron’s Call 2 features the playing of musical instruments
precisely for this reason.
When people have done something exhausting, they want to
relax. In the real world, that can mean going to the virtual world
for some fun. Sometimes, though, the nature of this fun can
itself be exhausting, and players need a way to relax within the
virtual world. Give them ways to do it, or they’ll log off and find
a real-world alternative.
Stake-Holding
Members of communities act and interact in community space.
If they own some of that community space, it can help them feel
like they’re a permanent part of that community. For virtual
worlds, that generally means they should own some virtual
place of residence. It shows they care for the community space,
and therefore (by extension) for the community.
Textual worlds introduced the idea of owning property; indeed,
building their own house was a major preoccupation of players
of TinyMUDs from the very beginning. Many MUDs using
codebases that didn’t let players access content-generation
tools also allowed characters to own houses, although the
Players 317
practice was not widespread. Its importance was only really
highlighted by its inclusion in Ultima Online, where it proved a
galloping success126
.
Stake-holding is good for other reasons, too. Like any property,
players see housing as an investment. If they spent weeks
collecting the necessary resources, found the perfect plot and
designed exactly how they wanted their building to look, they
will be loath to quit and leave it to decay.
From the live team’s point of view, property can be a useful
indicator of a community’s well-being. If the area where all the
bards congregate is run-down, with few people on the streets,
something is wrong in bardland and it merits investigation.
I’m talking about stake-holding in terms of housing here, but it
doesn’t have to be just that. Players who create in-world works
of art, or who have acquired some (other) unique piece of
content, will often feel that they have more of a stake in the
virtual world than those who don’t.
There are no major reasons not to have housing (or some
equivalent) but plenty of major reasons to have it. Unless you
have a compact or highly content-driven virtual world, put it in.
Things to Demote
Some things are generally good for communities, and some
things are generally bad. There are any number of real-world
reasons you wouldn’t want these anyway, but players being
players they’ll sometimes occur. Designers should make every
126 Interestingly, it almost didn’t happen. The development team worked all
weekend to implement it, having got word that Origin’s upper management
planned to include it in a deadline-beating feature—cut the following
Monday.
318 Chapter 3
effort to prevent this from happening unless explicitly trying to
make some kind of point or working with precisely controlled
gameplay mechanics.
The main ones to watch out for are:
• Xenophobia
• Prejudice
• Oppression
Xenophobia can cause an individual community to become
stronger within itself, but it will be isolated from the rest of the
virtual world in a way that other communities aren’t. In some
virtual worlds, modular communities often have no motive to
interact with other communities, but that’s quite different from
having a motive not to interact with them. A party of EverQuest
adventurers might keep itself to itself, but if some other party
asked to team up for a while to tackle a particularly tough
monster, they’d generally give the suggestion a fair hearing. A
system that made it easy for the second party to slaughter
members of the first party once they’d gained their trust would
cause these communities to become more tightly woven (which
sounds good) while treating every other community as a threat
(which may also sound good, but is most certainly not). People
don’t like having to be on their guard the whole time. Under this
kind of pressure, modular communities will emigrate to some
other virtual world where they’re not going to have to watch
their back.
Prejudice is another problem, and one that is harder to deal with
as it relies on real-world points of view. An adventurer might
consider all socializers to be lazy cowards and a socializer might
consider all adventurers to be one-dimensional primitives.
Making socializers and adventurers have some mutual
dependency would help if done well, but done badly it could
Players 319
cause resentment and make matters even worse. You have to be
very careful, but it’s tractable.
When prejudice is based on the real-life attributes of players
(“She’s a real girl, they’re unreliable”) there’s very little that can
be done; when it’s perceived as a response to prejudice (“We
don’t want your male prejudices in our group”) there’s even less.
The only strategy available is to make the virtual world
sufficiently engrossing and immersive that people leave their
real-world prejudices behind; if they form new ones in the
virtual world, well, at least your community-promoting
strategies are there to address it.
Prejudice is bad because it uses the community-promoting tools
to undermine community. What causes bonds can be used to
break them. Communication is good, but not when what is
being communicated is an ill-judged message not to
communicate with someone else. Some people really are
detestable, of course, and deserve their fate; prejudice metes out
the same fate on those who don’t deserve it. Again, this could
strengthen a community under attack, but it can provoke
xenophobia while doing so and drive the community out.
Finally, oppression is not to be encouraged. Again, some
idealistic designers might see it as the ideal way to fuel
community. Under the heel of the despot, the players form tight,
close-knit groups as they plot the revolution. Then, suddenly,
they rise up as one, depose the tyrant and form a spiritual
community that lasts in perpetuity.
Unfortunately, players intensely dislike being given orders by
other players or having to hand over their property. The only
reason they’ll put up with it for extended periods is if they
figure that at some point they’ll get to have a slice of the
oppressor’s power themselves. In the real world, oppressed
peoples have no escape except revolution or liberation; in virtual
320 Chapter 3
worlds, they just go somewhere more conducive to having fun.
Thus, designers should strike out anything in the virtual world
that allows any player unfettered access to mechanisms by
which they can make the lives of other players a misery. Always
have checks and balances.
Influencing Immersion
People want to be immersed. Designers want them to be
immersed. Therefore, designers and players can collude to make
immersion happen. In this sense, immersion is easier to design
for than community, because it mainly involves telling players
what they want to hear. You don’t have to worry about how
much immersion you want, or how quickly to deliver it—just
give them as much as you can as quickly as you can, and they’ll
do the rest.
The key to immersion is persuasion. The more persuasive an
environment is, the easier it is to become immersed in it. The
biggest weapon in the designer’s armory of persuasion is
familiarity. You might at an intellectual level know you’re in a
virtual world, but if everything acts just like it would in the real
world then you gradually find yourself treating the world as if it
were real while knowing it isn’t. Because you do know it isn’t
real, you can still behave as an individual in ways that you
wouldn’t if it were the real world, yet because it feels real you
can nevertheless believe you’re in it. When knowledge and belief
coincide, that’s immersion127
.
127 In viewing the presence of individuals in virtual worlds as participatory
theater, that is, as hard role-playing, the concept of immersion stops short of
this. There’s a discussion of this kind of immersion with respect to textbased virtual worlds in Chapter 4 of Janet H. Murray, Hamlet on the Holodeck:
The Future of Narrative in Cyberspace. New York, Free Press, 1997.
Players 321
Although similarity to reality is a good way to influence
immersion, it suffers from the fact that at first glance players
don’t want reality; if they did, they could have it by default for
free—they wouldn’t be in the virtual world. Historical, magical,
and futuristic virtual worlds by necessity must differ from
reality; however, that doesn’t mean they don’t intersect with
reality. Players can still be given a strong sense of familiarity,
which will smooth their path to immersion just as much as it
would in a present-day setting.
This “similarity to reality” approach to inducing immersion
seems to suggest that graphical virtual worlds have the edge on
textual ones, because they have pictures (like reality) whereas
textual worlds don’t. Although in the short term they are indeed
patently more like reality, in the long term the situation is not
so clear cut. The constructs that designers are creating exist
only in the minds of players: Graphics put it there through the
senses; text puts it there through the imagination. Text can
convey nuances that graphics can’t; indeed, it can convey
nuances that reality can’t except through language. Text is also
harder to deny. It is not, however, anywhere near as immediate
as graphics. On the whole, therefore, text gives the more
immersive experience, but it starts too slowly for many people.
With graphics, you can still reach immersion, and you start off
halfway there already.
The more that players don’t have to think about interacting
with their environment, the less they will think about it, and
therefore the more immersive their time in the world will be. As
an example, consider gravity. There’s no inherent reason why a
virtual world should have gravity pulling people down—it could
just as easily pull them clockwise around the planet. If it pulls
them down, though, players take it for granted. They know what
will happen when they drop something. They know what will
happen when they jump off the ledge. They don’t even have to
322 Chapter 3
think about it, as it matches their model of real-world physics. It
enhances immersion.
If they know it, they don’t have to learn it; if it works like reality,
it seems more real; if functionality is transparent, it won’t be
seen. When players say that a virtual world is unrealistic, they’re
complaining that it is breaking their immersion128. Magic
doesn’t happen in real life, but in a Fantasy virtual world it’s not
unrealistic; if it appeared in a Cyberpunk setting, that would
indeed make it unrealistic.
Let players use their intellect to operate within the context of
the virtual world; don’t force them to use it to maintain the
illusion of reality for themselves.
Ways to Promote Immersion
Immersion will happen almost by default in a virtual world
eventually. Nevertheless, designers shouldn’t take this for
granted. Here are some ways by which to promote immersion.
Again, note that’s “promote,” not “force.”
Control
The more immersed a player is, the less the virtual world can
dictate to them. In particular, it can’t treat their characters as if
they weren’t people.
If my character waves and the feedback is, “You wave
enthusiastically,” that takes control away from me. I didn’t
128 Ironically, many breaks in realism occur for playability reasons. This is a
trade-off common to all games that have some form of reality simulation in
them. For a clear and relatively concise assessment of the issues, see Steve
Jackson, Realism versus Playability in Simulation Game Design. Proceedings
Joks i Tecnojocs conference, Barcelona, 1991.
Players 323
“wave enthusiastically;” what I did was “wave.” Virtual worlds
should not presume to control my character for me.
The only exception is if I give my consent. If my character
consumes alcohol, I’m explicitly relinquishing some degree of
control. Loss of control is a well-understood property of alcohol.
Therefore, if my character suddenly staggers off involuntarily in
some direction after consuming a bottle of port, I’ve consented.
There is an implied consent to submit to environmental effects,
but only in moderation. Your character may sneeze from dust,
laugh when tickled, catch a bad cough—all these are acceptable
if done infrequently, and help sustain the impression that the
virtual world works like the real one. It’s just about okay to let
characters faint if they spend too long near a powerful heat
source. It’s not okay to have a mind-control spell go off that
makes them attack their friends.
There’s a gray area covering the situation where players try to
do something really stupid. If a newbie runs up to a cliff edge
and doesn’t stop, what should the virtual world do? Let them
continue running and fall to their doom? Or put some selfawareness into their character and have them pull up? If a
newbie wants to attack a dragon alone, should the virtual world
let them or should it point out they stand only a one in 20 billion
chance of winning?
The best (albeit still not ideal) solution is to allow players to set a
safety switch. If they decide at character-creation time to be
prudent, then an attempt to jump off a cliff would be blocked
(“You don’t think this would be prudent”). A reckless character
would make the jump; a paranoid character wouldn’t drink an
unlabeled potion. Later, the player could change their safety
setting if it started getting in the way of play.
324 Chapter 3
Another example of taking control from players is giving them
goals they don’t have. This most often happens in training
programs for newbies, where designers are trying to teach new
players the ropes. New characters aren’t necessarily new
players, so there should always be a way to decline a quest. “The
first thing you need is a weapon. There is a shop….” No, the first
thing I need is a teleport ring from a guy who owes me one, so I
can meet my buddies up on the mountain where we’re tracking
werebears.
Detail
More detail makes for more persuasiveness. There are two
caveats: Detail should be non-contradictory, and it should be at
a consistent level. Contradictions usually only arise when two
different designers working on disjoint parts of the virtual
world independently specify content that clashes; this problem
is almost always easy to fix. Inconsistent levels of detail are
another matter, though. They arise because designers focus on
one feature without following through the implications. For
example, it may be possible to fell a tree to expose a hollow core
that you can climb down through, but not be possible to fell any
other trees, even saplings. Players would accept the same level
of depth throughout (that is, no fellable trees) but if one tree can
be chopped down and others can’t, they’re reminded that
they’re in a virtual world. Furthermore, it’s an incomplete one
(from their point of view) because felling trees isn’t fully
implemented. Better you can fell no trees than just one.
Detail in the virtual world is in terms of both depth and breadth.
This means lots of things working in lots of ways, arranged
together in an integrated fashion. Initially, everything in the
virtual world should make sense. Alchemists making fire bombs
wouldn’t live in crowded areas, loggers would have their depot
next to a river, forest creatures wouldn’t all be carnivores. If
players come across something out of place, it’s either out of
Players 325
place for a reason (“This tower is miles from civilization, how
did they build it? Unless…”) or it’s because some player did it.
Critical to this is the sense that the virtual world has a past—
that it was fully functioning before players came along. Most
virtual worlds have a backstory to explain how and why things
came to be the way they are. This serves two purposes: to
introduce gameplay concepts that wouldn’t make sense
otherwise; to set the context so that newbies know in advance
what kind of world they’re entering (it may even attract some of
them, especially if it’s a big license).
Backstory isn’t history, though. You may assert that in the time
before the coming of the humans, elves, and dwarfs roamed the
lands, but that doesn’t tell you which parts of the land they stalk
now, and why that makes sense. A handy tip is to run a board
game simulation129 of the virtual world’s history that can
provide the necessary explanations. Use what the simulation
implies in the virtual world: Why this area has a sizeable
minority population of dwarfs; why that area has ancient
reptilian monuments; why in those areas the humans speak
Elvish. It all adds to the veracity of the detail that will enable
players to buy into the world.
Detail is important. Having greater detail is one reason that
textual virtual worlds can be more immersive than graphical
ones.
129 Just choose some existing board game that you think will work and use
your own map. Half a day playing Diplomacy is fine if it gives you concrete
reasons for why the elves ended up scattered to the four winds and the
dwarfs remained stuck in their mountain redoubt.
326 Chapter 3
Freedom of Choice
Designers decide what options to provide to players and the
manner in which to provide them. This is how design influences
players.
For promoting immersion, it’s slightly different. The whole
point of identity play is that you’re free to make choices.
Designers may suggest directions that you hadn’t considered,
but they have to stop short of actually recommending any of
them. It’s for you to make up your own mind.
Virtual worlds should be as open-ended as possible. Players
should be able to try anything. They don’t have to succeed (there
are too many killer-type players for that), but they do have to
know they could have tried. The decision not to do something
can be as life-changing as the decision to do it. Let players take
their own path.
This particular way to promote immersion is one with which
many designers feel uncomfortable. They don’t like giving
players the freedom to make major decisions because, all too
often, they make the wrong one. They then refuse to accept it’s
their fault, sulk, and quit. The counter-argument is that these
are the players who were going to quit after a short while
anyway, so why pander to them? From this point of view, the
question boils down to: Do you want their business for a couple
of months or don’t you?
It’s actually a broader issue than that, though, involving
concerns such as narrative, content, and (of course) community.
Choice of action has implications beyond immersion that must
be considered.
Choice promotes immersion. It’s up to individual designers to
decide whether to act on the fact, though.
Players 327
Self-Expression
Self-expression is another way to promote immersion. By giving
players freeform ways to communicate themselves, designers
can draw them more deeply into the world— they feel more of a
part of it. Communication and stake-holding help players to
exhibit self-expression in addition to being ways to promote
community; the decision to have them therefore looks trivially
easy.
Self-expression allows players to discover more about
themselves, which is almost a definition of the goal of
immersion. It also, to a lesser extent, lets them find out more
about the virtual world; this, too promotes immersion.
The only real reason to curtail self-expression is the impact that
it can have on other players. However, that is a very powerful
reason. One person’s self-expression can be someone else’s
“limbo dancing wasn’t a feature of life in ancient Rome.” The
appearance in a recreation of Victorian London of a character
called Ladyboy is going to unimmerse even those players who
smile when they see the incongruity of it. It can undo hours of
work: A designer may have agonized over the exact positioning
of a field to create just the right sense of rural idyll from a
neighboring hillock, but if someone has planted potatoes in it in
the shape of a smiley face then it’s all to waste.
Self-expression will find a way, but promoting it will increase its
prevalence. It helps immersion for individuals, although it can
reduce immersion for other players. Whether this becomes a
problem depends on the maturity of the player base and the
vigilance of the community management representatives.
Things to Demote
The twin enemies of immersion are Reality and sterility.
328 Chapter 3
If players are continually reminded that they’re in Reality, it will
disrupt their sense of immersion. You can’t stop someone’s
significant other from bringing them a mug of coffee, but you
can stop your virtual world’s interface from being intrusive and
you can prevent references to Reality from sneaking in. Keeping
Reality out is why commercials are unacceptable in virtual
worlds, but product placement is comparatively okay.
Demoting Reality can be tricky because designers often want to
provide mechanisms to support other features (particularly
community) that involve reference to it. Immersion usually
loses out in these conflicts, because returning to it is relatively
quick. When it does become necessary, designers must first
consider whether they can hide it within the virtual world’s
fiction. If they can, that’s fine; if they can’t, they should formally
take it out of the virtual world in some way—a separate
window, a different color of font—so that players perceive it as
being distinct from where they were. When the screen returns
to normal, they can then (hopefully) dive right back in where
they left off.
Sterility is counter-immersive because it induces ennui. While
they’re having fun, players are working toward immersion;
when they become bored, the direction changes and they work
away from it. Note that this does not happen in the face of
unpleasantness, unless the unpleasantness is relentless; players
accept change while immersed, but not fossilization. It’s as if
you’re watching a movie and suddenly the projector locks in
freeze-frame: You may not have been enjoying the movie, but at
least you were absorbed by it; now, you’re out of it.
Of all the ways to kill a virtual world through bad design, boring
the players is the one most guaranteed to succeed.
World Design 329
Chapter 4
World Design
The scientific view of the real world is that human beings and
other organisms are under constant evolutionary pressure from
the environment and from each other. The environment was not
designed for humans, and neither were humans designed for
the environment; this is because there is no “design.” Things got
to be the way they are through complex combinations of chance
events.
The religious view of the real world is that one or more deities
created it. Normally, the deities put the world together before
introducing humans into it (rather than creating both at once or
the humans first). However, from the beginning, the deities
intend to populate the world, and therefore design it with the
humans who will live there in mind.
For the real world, you should decide for yourself which of these
views is the more correct. For virtual worlds, discount the first
one. Deities create virtual worlds; designers are those deities.
330 Chapter 4
You know, when you start designing your virtual world, that it
will have players. These are the people for whom you are
designing your world. They won’t spend millions of years
evolving to fit it; you have to create the world to fit them. The
more you know about them, the better you will be able to do
this. Therefore, you should look at players first; only then can
you look at worlds.
We spent Chapter 3, “Players,” looking at players. Now we can
look at worlds.
Scope
The nature of a virtual world’s design is determined by three
factors:
• Business. What will it cost? How will it be sold?
• Technical. What can be implemented? How long will it
take?
• Gameplay. What will people do? How will they have fun?
These are general terms. “Business,” for example, doesn’t
necessarily mean commerce: Even a free, stock, textual world
will need an investment of time, and its players still have to
come from somewhere.
Using Chapter 2’s, “How to Make Virtual Worlds,” model of a
massively multiplayer games development house, “business”
covers company leadership, sales/marketing, finance/accounts,
and HR; “technical” means software development,
operations/IT, art/animation, and support/QA; gameplay is the
design team.
This chapter concerns only gameplay.
World Design 331
Typically, business will want the virtual world to have certain
features that it considers prerequisites for its success. Some of
these just won’t work in a virtual world, and others will be
unimplementable. Technical will want a heavily over-specified
kit, on which it will implement everything in experimental,
beyond state-of-the-art ways. Gameplay wants a world that
won’t sell, and that would need more computers than there are
atoms in the universe to support it.
There will thus almost certainly be criteria from the business
and technical sections to which the designers must adhere.
These will vary on a case-by-case basis, but the ones that are
most frequently “a given” are
• Genre
• Platform
• Unique selling point
Designers of virtual worlds have very little influence on genre
unless they had it explicitly written into their contract when
they signed up. Designers of free textual worlds effectively run
their own company, so in theory can do whatever they like; the
availability of a suitable codebase may force their hand, though.
Nevertheless, within a genre there can still be a lot of leeway.
Fantasy and Science Fiction are very broad areas, for example.
Even within a license there can be freedom, although as noted in
Chapter 1, “Introduction to Virtual Worlds,” some licenses are
pickier than others.
Related to genre is the user base. Designers can’t choose where
their players come from. Often they have to address a particular
market. A virtual world expected to be played primarily by
adolescent boys will be different than one aimed at
homemakers. An inclusive virtual world that welcomes
332 Chapter 4
everyone has balance issues that a world for children aged eight
years and under doesn’t. Designers can hope to expand beyond
their core player base, but the core itself is often determined
from the outset.
The technical platform of both server and client is also a given,
although the client more so than the server. This isn’t too bad:
Designers look on technology as physics that they can’t do
anything about, so they accept it. It’s only an issue if
programmers push their luck and claim that things can’t be
done that can.
Architecture, however, is a technical consideration that may be
imposed for business reasons. Designers are told whether the
virtual world will be textual or graphical, and, if the latter, what
sort of graphics they will be (2D, 3D). From a purely gameplay
point of view, text is better for intimate, intense, imaginative
worlds where thought is more important than action and
individuals are preferred over parties or clans. Graphics are
better for gregarious, large-scale, beautiful worlds where action
is more important than thought and clans and parties are
preferred over individuals. Designers have no say in which they
get.
A unique selling point (USP) is a Big Idea that marketing people
feel will attract players and interest to the virtual world.
Examples are: “Inter-clan warfare!,” “Pay real money for game
money!,” and “A five-year story arc.” Most of these aren’t as
unique as the people who think them up like to imagine, and
they’re often of dubious worth as selling points, too.
Designers can have a big idea, just the same as anyone else. Be
very careful if you do, though. A big idea completely dominates a
project, with everything becoming subservient to it. This makes
the virtual world one-dimensional, preventing people from
having multiple big ideas.
World Design 333
Sometimes, though, a big idea can lead to a paradigm shift.
EverQuest may have been dominated by the big idea of having
first-person graphics, but benefited because this really was a big
idea (albeit one pioneered by Meridian 59).
So, designers will have constraints on what they can design. For
the most part, these will be beyond their control, and represent
a non-negotiable starting position. Within such parameters,
however, designers have absolute dominion. It is here that the
virtual world is shaped to their will.
This is the context that the remainder of this chapter assumes.
Major Decisions
Designers can’t leap right in and start work at the nuts-andbolts level. Although such a “bottom-up” approach may work for
smaller tasks, virtual worlds are too complex for this. If you
were designing a cruise liner, you wouldn’t start by specifying
the décor for cabins. Yes, at some point you would need to do it,
but there are other things that are more important; some are
even so important that they impact on it (the cabin’s
dimensions, its window sizes, furniture access, and so on).
So it is for virtual worlds. Some things have to be decided first,
because they affect what is decided later.
Most of these have already been introduced in this book, so now
let’s look at them in detail.
Ethos
What kind of a virtual world do you want?
334 Chapter 4
To a large extent, it depends on the players. Where will they
come from? What will their background be? What player types
will dominate? Why will people eventually leave?
Players bring aspects of their real-world community—their
culture—into the virtual world with them. Part of the point of
virtual worlds lies in being able to pick and choose what you
leave behind. Culture is that which is passed from generation to
generation without being inherited; virtual worlds let you
rethink what you’ve been taught at every level.
One player may find this a liberating experience and take a
more progressive attitude in real life; another might despair of
the superficial values and reaffirm their real-life cultural
anchors. It doesn’t really matter which: The point is that players
must have the option of stepping out of their culture; whether
they stay out or step back is irrelevant.
If players do step out, though, what do they step into? It can’t be
a wild maelstrom of anarchy, because otherwise players could
only interact transiently with one another and the virtual world
would not survive. The virtual world must itself have a
culture— one supported by its community in general. Sure, it’s
not as deep as a real-life culture, but it’s a culture nonetheless.
How does this culture arise? It emerges consensually from the
player community. As noted in Chapter 3, this is something
designers can shape but can’t control.
The theory works as follows:
• The designer determines an ethos, and fixes the virtual
world to reward activities that exemplify this ethos.
World Design 335
• Players who share the designer’s ethos seed the virtual
world.
• The virtual world’s design attracts players hopefully
compatible with its ethos.
• Thereafter, it’s mainly self-selecting (newbies either take
the ethos on board or don’t like the atmosphere and
leave).
• The live team can reinforce or undermine the ethos by
example.
In practice, designers are often cheerfully unaware of the extent
to which they set the tone of their virtual world. They seed it
with people whose shared ethos is to find ways to exploit or
otherwise abuse the virtual world. Cynical marketing
techniques attract players to an image of the virtual world that
doesn’t necessarily match the product. Newbies who don’t like
the culture damage it before they leave. The live team spends all
its time firefighting and doesn’t have the staff to do anything
more cerebral1
.
That said, the exercise isn’t entirely pointless. There may be
obstacles piled at the window, but if a single shaft of light gets
through it can be enough to see by. A virtual world drawing
players from advertisements on first-person shooter web sites
will be different from the same software drawing players from
advertisements on chess web sites, but some attitudes may
prevail in both.
As to what ethos to adopt, well that’s really up to the designer.
Be sure you do have one, though; if players can’t sense how they
1 Sometimes, the customer support staff develops its own rogue culture
independently, which then becomes embedded in that of the virtual world. If
the staff has a lax attitude to its responsibilities (for example, fixing bugs),
players will develop lax attitudes to theirs (for example, behaving civilly).
336 Chapter 4
should behave, the law of the jungle applies, and as with any
question of morality, different people have different ideas.
However, there are some things that are more conducive to the
prosperity of virtual worlds than others. Many of these occur in
multiple philosophies2 and will usually appear in some form by
default anyway. Of those attitudes that don’t, you should
probably consider promoting some or all of the following:
• Reality is another place.
• A virtual action with real-world effect is a real action.
• Yours is just one way of many to play.
• There’s no stigma to role-playing.
• Newbies aren’t children.
• Evilness is not a winning strategy.
• It isn’t rude to say hello.
Unending or Circular?
In a single-player computer game, when a player makes a
mistake it means a restart from their last save. In virtual worlds,
this is impossible—a restart for one player means a restart for
all of them. How, then, can a player learn from their mistakes?
Do similar situations arise regularly? How about the same
situation? Does everything repeat in time, or does the world
evolve?
This is basically a change and persistence issue.
Players consume content. There is certain content that they like,
and which they are not averse to consuming several times.
2 Hinduism: “Do naught to others which if done to thee, would cause thee
pain.” Mahabharata 5:5-7. Zoroastrianism: “Whatever is disagreeable to
yourself, do not do unto others.” Shayast-na-Shayast 13:29. Buddhism: “Hurt
not others with that which pains yourself.” Udana-Varga 5:18. Confucianism:
“What you do not want done to yourself, do not do to others.” Analects 15:23.
World Design 337
Other content they can only really consume once. On the other
hand, just because one player has consumed something, that
doesn’t mean someone else wouldn’t like to try it. How can
these differences be reconciled?
Well, that’s what you have to decide. In practice, you can’t have
them all at once: It’s a sliding scale from low change/persistence
(circular) to high change/persistence (unending). A fully circular
approach reuses content but has nothing new; a fully unending
approach abandons used content but offers fresh experiences.
Virtual worlds that don’t change much and don’t persist much
have to be sufficiently broad and deep that players take an age
to explore them; otherwise, only the activities of other players
will provide novel experiences. Virtual worlds that do change or
persist will retain players’ interest3
, but be costly (because new
content has to be created4
) and wasteful (because old content
isn’t reused). Furthermore, virtual worlds need checks and
balances to ensure that all new content is in keeping with the
virtual world as a whole.
Virtual worlds that don’t introduce content are called fixed.
Whether virtual worlds that do introduce content are fixed
depends on whether the content is fixed. A predetermined
storyline is not new content; it’s old content that hasn’t been
added yet5
. Players have no more ability to change the future
3 Unless there is so much change that it renders large chunks of players’
knowledge unusable.
4
It’s a never-ending commitment, too. Once you begin adding content
regularly, players will come to expect it regularly, irrespective of whether the
virtual world actually needs it.
5 Players may perceive this as new content, because they haven’t seen it
before. From a designer’s point of view, though, it isn’t new. What
constitutes “new content” varies from virtual world to virtual world: It
usually means new monsters and areas, but it could also include additional
skills, spells, classes, or even races. Basically, if “content” is stuff that holds
338 Chapter 4
than they do in a virtual world that resets every two hours. If
storylines are reactive or emerge from player actions, that
means the virtual world is not fixed.
Note that by “virtual world” here I don’t mean just its physical
geography; anything from its social structures and mobiles to
its economy and combat systems can be changed. Asheron’s Call
and Anarchy Online both have basically fixed storylines, but the
former’s can involve the leveling of entire cities whereas the
latter’s (because of how it’s implemented) can’t.
Does the virtual world have a future? If so, who decides it? You
get to choose.
Hands On or Hands Off?
Intangible content in virtual worlds will arise naturally through
the interactions of players. Designers can and should assist
these interactions, by providing tangible means of support and
encouragement. How far should they go, though? In particular,
should they be proactive to the extent that they provide for live
team “leader” players to catalyze these interactions?
In traditional tabletop role-playing games, the referee not only
designs the game world but can lead the players through it.
Players perceive a highly detailed world because the referee can
resolve everything they do, to whatever depth. Referees don’t
have to think up everything in advance; they can create some of
it in response to the actions that players take.
In a virtual world, the designers have to put everything in to
begin with. There’s a bedrock level of detail beyond which
players can’t descend. This is most noticeable in the behavior of
the interest of players then “new content” is stuff that does this which wasn’t
there before.
World Design 339
mobiles, none of which have remotely convincing artificial
intelligence6
. There is, however, something that can be done
about this. People could be allowed to play on the same “side” as
the virtual world, as an adjunct to it. There is already a
community management team; why not allow specialized
members to participate in the virtual world in character?
There are several levels at which such characters could operate:
• Undercover. Nobody knows they’re part of the live team, but
they make life interesting for other players through what
they do. They’re like audience plants who “volunteer” to help
magicians7
.
• Entertainer. Everyone knows these people are part of the live
team, but by their ready wit and repartee they manage to
make the world more fun.
• Performer. Players in a Lord of the Rings universe will want to
meet Gandalf—he’s part of the package. The live team
therefore hires an actor to play the role.
• Guide. “So you guys have never visited the caves of Drachen,
huh? Stick with me and just maybe you won’t get hurt too
bad….”
• Referee. These are guides that have out-of-context world
editing abilities. If a player on a quest decides to do
something inventive that wasn’t planned for, the referee can
produce a tangible response.
6
If they did, how could developers hope to control them (both practically and
morally)?
7 The irony with these is that to succeed, players must not recognize them
for what they are. This means that when the live team sets up large-scale
events, players don’t credit them with having done so. In Ultima Online,
players were found to express disappointment at never having participated
in an organized event when at that very moment they actually were
participating in one!
340 Chapter 4
• Unseen referee. The quest is managed behind the scenes.
Players don’t know that the reason there’s a key lying in
front of them is because they didn’t search the body of the
troll and find it earlier.
The hands-on approach is used mainly for manufactured quests.
It had been applied for other purposes right from the start:
MUD1 had organized events called “spectaculars” that involved
much hands-on activity by a wiz-level administrator. Only with
plotted quests, however, were the virtues of participant
management to become fully apparent. Avalon pioneered this
idea commercially in the early 1990s, becoming formalized in
Achaea circa 1996. Nowadays, some of the products of the
innovative textual world company, Skotos, rely so much on the
activities of highly experienced referees (which it calls
storytellers) that they would be almost dead without them; with
them, however, they are profoundly alive.
If a hands-on style can deliver this degree of immersion while
fostering community, why would a designer not want it?
Firstly, it’s expensive. There may be players willing to do it for
free, but quality control and time management are difficult to
maintain. Also, developers are sensitive to accusations that they
are exploiting their player base, and therefore prefer to have
people on their payroll8
.
Secondly, the deeper levels of event management only really
work in smaller virtual worlds. If there are 2,000 players milling
around and 40 referees running quests, it’s harder for them not
to tread on each other’s toes than if there are 100 players and 4
8 The fact that developers risk being taken to court under minimum wage
legislation if they don’t is perhaps another factor.
World Design 341
referees (despite the latter’s greater density of referees to
players).
Thirdly, the players don’t all like it; specifically, the players who
don’t get to participate in organized events don’t like it. To an
achiever, seeing someone (particularly someone else) go up
levels after being “walked” through a quest is galling. Getting
help from community management—it’s like cheating!
Socializers may view intervention as patronizing. It’s a virtual
world, not a theme park. Skotos targets its games at players
who do like this degree of personal touch; virtual worlds that
don’t may not have the same results.
Fourthly, it’s very difficult to test quests and events prior to
running them. There may be unwanted effects (such as bugs) or
side effects (such as characters getting frequently killed).
Occasional events with wide coverage can be very popular, but
they tend to have a greater chance of going wrong, too.
Finally, no matter what spin you put on it, using real, live people
to make your content interesting is like an admission of defeat.
It says that a virtual world is neither sufficiently compelling to
be interesting in its own right, nor sufficiently rich to enable
players to make it interesting themselves. Of course, it could be
argued that no virtual world is so compelling, but that’s not how
designers see it. Besides, professional mourners can spoil a
funeral, rather than enhance it.
Categories
Another major decision designers have to make is whether to
categorize players or not. In many cases, the question they
actually ask themselves is what categories to have, which rather
jumps the gun. The categorization of players is not a
fundamental component of virtual world design.
342 Chapter 4
Chapter 3 described the differences between classbound and
classless systems. There, I argued that a classless system can
fake up a classbound one while offering more. Because some
players (particularly newbies) can benefit from the provision of
predefined character types, I suggested a “character kit”
approach to allow them to choose a pseudo-class while retaining
the overall flexibility of the classless ideal. Ironically, this means
that even if a designer decides against a classbound regime,
they could still have to produce something that looks like a list
of classes (if only to placate newbies who are expecting to see
one).
So what are the usual lines of partition?
The first one is, inevitably, gender. Textual worlds are
hamstrung by language in this respect, and graphical worlds by
images. Although it is quite conceivable to create a virtual world
in which all the characters are of the same gender, it’s nigh
impossible to create one in which characters’ gender is merely
unspecified without convoluting the language9
. Gender is
probably the only categorization that virtual worlds are stuck
with.
Gender is a physical difference, although in virtual worlds it is
usually presented as a cosmetic one. The reasons for this are
given in Chapter 5, “Life in the Virtual World,” but the basic
explanation is that designers don’t want to offend anybody.
Another physical dimension for partitioning players into groups
is by race. Given the way that virtual worlds are so politically
correct about gender, one would expect that race was also a
9 This is in Indo-European languages; it may be easier in others. For example,
the Mandarin Chinese word for “he” and “she” is the same—ta¯ —although
they’re written using different symbols.
World Design 343
purely cosmetic issue, but that’s not the case: Races are
presented as being fundamentally different, with significant
strengths and weaknesses. The reason for this is that what
virtual worlds call race, the real world would call sub-species;
what the real world calls race, virtual worlds call nothing at all
and do treat as a merely cosmetic aspect of a character. Some of
the moral implications of this are discussed in Chapter 8, “Coda:
Ethical Considerations.”
Races follow stereotypical lines. The short, stocky, bearded axewielders who live underground hate the tall, slender, pale
archers who live in the forests, and vice versa. Scaled-up humans
have more strength than brains, whereas scaled-down humans
have more brains than strength. Nobody likes a lizard.
There are common sub-races, too, which also run along
stereotypical lines. Fantasy worlds have half-elves and half-orcs,
but never quarter-elves or half-dwarfs10, and there isn’t even a
word that means the progeny of an orc and an elf.
Because races have physical differences, designing kits for them
is tricky. It’s easy enough to make height, musculature, skin
tone, ear and eye shape, hirsuteness, and so on be parameters
that can be adjusted at character creation time, but this would
allow players to customize races of their own—giant, puny,
hairy lizards, for example—that didn’t make sense.
Representing these graphically may introduce unnecessary
complexities, too. For this reason, virtual worlds that must have
races (because of their fiction) almost always have to hardwire
them in. It’s limiting, but it’s a necessary compromise. Although
10 Most virtual worlds that have them refer to “dwarves” rather than to
“dwarfs.” This is either because their designers are following Tolkien’s lead
or they’re illiterate.
344 Chapter 4
people who start off as farmers may become politicians, nobody
who starts off as a troll is going to become an elf11
.
Related to race is the notion of nationality, or, more accurately,
country of origin. This is a less frequently used way to
categorize characters, combining them by geographical
proximity. The reason it’s not so popular is because players
want to move around as their characters progress, to be close to
the facilities they need (and things they want to kill). The result
is that nations are often only nations of NPCs, as PCs are spread
about all over the place.
Although one race may dominate a region, others are not
excluded; also, the same race may dominate more than one
region. Nationality is best used to engineer social conflicts
between large groups of players, and in that sense it doesn’t
necessarily play a part in a player’s sense of their character’s
identity. However, when nations are typecast it can become a
constraining influence. The cultures of the three realms in Dark
Age of Camelot are quite distinct.
Beyond the physical and geophysical, categorization becomes
harder to justify. The dominant approach is that of character
classes, which derives from the old tabletop role-playing
paradigm. Skills systems are usually grafted on to this, rather
than being independent of it, which is rather a shame.
Both character classes and skills systems are fairly arbitrary:
Depending as they do on the nature of the virtual world itself,
there isn’t really a systematic way to determine which ones you
“need.” I’ll describe the various ways to organize skills in
11 Yes, I know, in some enlightened virtual worlds race can be changed
through magic or whatever. On the whole, though—especially in graphical
worlds, where identity is bound tightly to appearance—race is pretty well
inviolate.
World Design 345
Chapter 5; only in creating the skills will designers get a feel for
what character kits might be appropriate. Thinking up the kits
(classes) first and then imposing them on the skill set is the
wrong way to go about it; I won’t be listing any of them here,
but if you want ideas you should look at other virtual worlds12
.
The final common way to categorize characters is by alignment.
This, too, is an old tabletop role-playing game concept, intended
as an aid to role-playing. The idea is that players decide in
advance how their character is to behave, and stick to it. If they
step out of line, the referee penalizes them. The traditional
alignment dimensions (from Advanced Dungeons & Dragons)
are law/chaos and good/evil, with the crossing point of the two
axes labeled “neutral.” A lawful good character is benevolent and
just; a lawful evil character plays by the rules but is without
mercy; a chaotic good character is a rebel with a conscience; a
chaotic evil character is a self-serving bully who’ll do anything
to further their ambitions. There are another five combinations
involving the concept of neutrality.
Alignment is a useful concept for soft role-players because it’s
moveable. By saying that your character is lawful neutral you’re
making a statement about how you intend to role-play that
character. If you consistently act good in situations where you
could equally well act neutral or evil, eventually your alignment
will shift to lawful good. Some actions may be outlawed
altogether—paladins don’t get to douse beggars in burning oil
no matter how bad they smell.
In tabletop games, the referee determines when alignment
violations occur. In virtual worlds, much of what is good or evil,
lawful or chaotic, is intangible; it can’t be tracked by the virtual
world, therefore it can’t be enforced. If I attack another player,
12 Textual worlds are particularly fruitful in this regard.
346 Chapter 4
am I being good or evil? What if they had stolen something from
me? What if it was theirs in the first place? What if they had
attacked me in the past? What if I’d attacked them beforehand?
What if I attacked because they’d killed a friend? What if the
friend had started the fight and I only think they were innocent?
There is no point in trying to get the virtual world itself to track
alignment.
So is attacking another player good or evil? If they’re evil, it’s
good; if they’re good it’s evil. Put this way, good and evil are just
badges. Players will say they’re evil without understanding in
the remotest sense the depths of cruelty that this implies;
players will say they’re good without ever having exhibited the
slightest tendency toward compassion. They’re just labels: They
may as well be green and yellow.
It may be possible to define an intangible concept like
alignment13 by asking other players to make judgments in a
tangible fashion (for example, by voting). This isn’t without its
problems, though: It’s immersion-breaking, it depends on player
goodwill, and it’s too easy to subvert.
On the whole, alignment in virtual worlds works only as another
shallow, artificial way to partition players into smaller
communities. Unless it’s an important part of the virtual world’s
fiction, it’s probably not worth having.
Intimate or Grand Scale?
Virtual worlds imbue a sense of size. Players have very definite
views on how large the areas they cover are. Asheron’s Call feels
bigger than EverQuest.
13 Reputation systems, which are discussed in Chapter 5, are closely related
to this idea.
World Design 347
Size is affected by many factors. The most obvious is the
number of discrete points that a character can occupy: A text
world with 20,000 rooms will generally feel larger than one that
has 500; a graphical world measuring 32K by 32K will feel
smaller than one measuring 256K by 256K. Speed of travel
affects size: If it takes you half an hour to traverse one virtual
world and two hours to traverse another, the former may
appear to be smaller than the latter even if it isn’t; if you can
teleport anywhere, the world will feel smaller still.
The abstract size of the world being modeled is significant, too,
especially in textual worlds. One room may only be 50 moves
away from another, but if the locations in between are written
to convey an impression of vastness and fraught with dangers
and dead ends, players can be left with the feeling of having
undertaken an epic journey.
As well as the physical size of the world, there are other features
that can indicate its scale—the number of independent
organizational substructures (dukedoms, countries, planets, and
so on), for example. The reach of these can help convince players
how big the virtual world is: If the non-player characters (NPCs)
change language or religion, or the currency no longer works, or
the buildings have onion domes instead of towers, it reinforces
the notion that a place is remote.
Virtual world designers like the idea of creation on the grand
scale. The more there is to design, the more designing they can
do, and therefore the more fun they’ll have. Big worlds have
interesting interactions that small ones don’t; a big canvas
makes for more detail.
Unfortunately, virtual worlds can be too big. Scatter 100 people
around a regular house and it will seem crowded; scatter them
in the Sahara desert and they’ll never find each other; put them
348 Chapter 4
next to each other in the Sahara desert and they won’t see more
than a fraction of the rest of it.
Virtual worlds have to be of a size appropriate to the number of
players they attract. In textual worlds, a rule of thumb is to aim
for a rooms per player ratio of about 40; 20 rooms per player is
crowded but bearable; 60 rooms per player is sparse but you can
still bump into people by accident. It’s possible through design
to influence how crowded a virtual world feels—for example, by
introducing honeypot rooms or thoroughfares to attract players
to the same location, or by starting players near to one another
or far apart when they enter the virtual world. In MUD2, I have
self-contained flood-control areas that only open up when a
certain threshold of players has been reached. On the whole,
though, it’s better if you just get the size right to begin with.
Another problem with having a large virtual world is that it
needs content. More content means either more designers or
more time for them to design in, both of which are expensive.
Players would rather play in a world that is small yet packed
with interesting things than a world that is large but empty.
As I remarked, actual size does not have to coincide with
apparent size. A small world can seem large, and a large world
can seem small. A seemingly expansive world will impress
relative newbies and give them the urge to explore new vistas; a
seemingly cozy one will feel more secure to them and make
conversation easier. Designers will therefore use a hybrid
approach sometimes, whereby newbies are initially presented
with an intimate14 environment, then see things on the grand
scale when they emerge from it.
14 Hopefully, not claustrophobically so.
World Design 349
The apparent size of a virtual world helps contribute to its
atmosphere. The actual size is important to ensure that players
meet each other serendipitously often enough to form
relationships yet not so often that these turn sour. Ideally, a
designer can find such a balance. Sometimes, though, their hand
is forced. In particular, if they are writing to a license, they could
have problems. The licensed world may be impractically large
(for example, Middle Earth) or impractically small (for example,
Hogwarts School) for the numbers of players expected15
.
Designers then have to decide how faithfully to honor their
virtual world’s sources. “Inspired by” can work: Dark Age of
Camelot isn’t an authentic retelling of Arthurian myth, but is
close enough in spirit not to disappoint newbies. However,
DAoC didn’t pay money to use its sources; if designers had done
so, the pressure to use the entirety of what they had bought
would have been great (not least from the license holders
wishing to protect the integrity of their universe).
Size doesn’t just pop out of a design. You have to think about it
from the beginning.
Purposeful or Decorative?
You look at a wall. Hanging on the wall is a picture. You go up to
the picture to remove it and find it’s actually part of the wall. In
a textual world, it would be embedded in a room description; in
a graphical one, it would be part of the texture for the wall. It’s
purely decorative.
Some objects are in virtual worlds for tangible reasons; others
are there for intangible ones. Should you give even the
intangible ones some tangible purpose, or keep them as the
props they are?
15 That said, textual worlds are much better at dealing with this kind of thing
than graphical ones are.
350 Chapter 4
It might seem a little premature to decide at the very beginning
of a virtual world’s design whether to assign meaning to
everything. Surely you can figure all that out later, once the
really important things have been done? Well yes, you can, but
by that time you may discover that the decision has been made
for you: It would be simply too much work to give everything
meaning. This is why so many virtual worlds have windows that
don’t break, chairs you can’t sit on, grass you can’t pull up, trees
you can’t chop down….
If you know from the beginning that objects will all have
tangible functionality, it means you can design for this from the
beginning. If you know they won’t, you immediately increase
the range of what you can design. You’ll have longer to do it, too:
Depth eats into design time, but if it’s there from the start, it
won’t eat anywhere near as much as it would if you added it
later.
An example: Are clothes just costume or are they fashion? It’s
possible to analyze what characters are wearing statistically
and determine what is and isn’t in fashion. If you wear
fashionable clothes, your status goes up; if your status is high,
what you wear is fashionable until everyone is wearing it. Nonplayer characters will treat high-status characters in a tangibly
different way than low-status characters. Should this gameplay
element be added to push players into making choices about
how their character looks? Or should they be free of such
tyranny and be able to wear whatever clothes they like? Even
those of the opposite sex?
Another example: Should coats of arms be regimented or
freeform? Real coats of arms are steeped in symbolism. Should
players send their characters to a college of heralds to compose
their device from templates? Or can they scan a photo of
themselves and use that? In the former case, NPCs could be
World Design 351
expected to “read” the meaning and react appropriately (farriers
may give a discount to a knight whose shield features a
horseshoe; bandit rebels may decline to attack a character
whose shield bears a holy symbol16). Uploaded images are
meaningful to players, but meaningless to NPCs.
In general, designers do want a gameplay meaning for
everything in their virtual world, because it makes the world
more immersive. If they don’t determine this from the outset,
though, they may be unable to have it when they’re at the point
they need it (fleshing out the details after the framework has
been implemented).
There’s a second issue here, though, which is more contentious.
What we’ve been asking so far is whether things that are needed
for out-of-context reasons should be given some contextual
meaning. However, what about things that are needed for
contextual reasons that have out-of-context meaning we don’t
want? “I was lying across the tracks when the train ran over me:
Why am I still alive?” “Because we thought you might stop
playing if you died.”
This tension between what is good for tangible reasons but bad
for intangible ones has claimed many victims in the past; it’s
sure to claim more in the future. It isn’t only manifested by
permanent character death (the virtual economy is the other big
loser, and there are many smaller ones), but that’s where the
battle lines are drawn17. The problem is that some things are
really, really desirable for tangible, gameplay reasons and really,
really undesirable for intangible, business reasons. If gameplay
16 Or, of course, they may attack if it’s the wrong holy symbol. This won’t go
down well with players who were only carrying the shield because “it looked
cool,” but that’s the price of vanity.
17 The arguments both for and against permanent (character) death are
considered in Chapter 5.
352 Chapter 4
wins, business suffers; if business wins, gameplay suffers (and
then business suffers).
The general policy with regard to whether gameplay or business
imperatives have priority should have been decided when the
parameters of the design were set out. For a well-known issue
such as permanent character death, this will almost certainly be
the case. However, there will undoubtedly be other instances
where friction will occur. Be sure that the procedures for
dealing with the resulting disputes are in place; you’ll need
them.
Closed or Open Economic Model?
The first question you should really ask is whether your virtual
world needs an economy at all. They don’t have to have one. If,
for example, characters can take nothing with them between
playing sessions, not only is an economy unnecessary, but you
can’t have one anyway. The more persistent a virtual world, the
greater its need for a means to facilitate the efficient transfer of
goods between players, but even then this doesn’t imply the
worlds need a formal currency. That said, the real world has
money and therefore virtual worlds that want to seem real will
have money too.
There are two ways to run a virtual economy: The one that
designers want to have, and the one they end up having. The
former is the closed economy; the latter is the open economy.
A closed model is internally consistent, with inbuilt defenses
against abuse. It’s a cycle. Resources are taken from the virtual
world at the rate they are returned to it. There is a set18 amount
18 This may be pegged to some indicator—for example, the total number of
players. In theory, you can instead fix the number of goods available and
make the money supply variable, but that’s not a popular solution.
World Design 353
of money and a set amount in circulation, although the goods
that can be bought with it may increase or decrease in number
(that is, the economy can grow/shrink). On the whole, cash
retains its value.
An open model is not internally consistent. It’s faucet/drain.
Resources enter the system and resources leave the system, but
there is no prescribed relationship between the two. If the cash
sinks aren’t big enough, then players can hoard money, which
therefore decreases its value; if the cash sinks are too big, then
players have to spend money, which therefore increases its
value.
The closed model is desirable because, done properly, it delivers
many benefits19. There is no inflation; market forces control the
price of goods; it allows for economy-driven gameplay. On the
other hand, it’s very hard to balance, highly sensitive to bugs,
not accepted by players, and (most devastating of all) too easy to
gouge. Players will attempt to break it, and will invariably
succeed.
The open model could, in theory, be balanced. In practice,
though, it’s much easier to give characters money than it is to
take it from them; rampant inflation is the result. Virtual money
rapidly becomes worthless, and players adopt a barter economy
instead.
Designers therefore have three options:
• Create an unbreakable closed economy. No one has done it
yet for large-scale virtual worlds, but that doesn’t mean it’s
19 I suspect, however, that none of the benefits I’m about to list are the real
reason many designers want a closed economy. The thing is, a closed
economy is just so much neater.
354 Chapter 4
impossible. The global economy of the real world taken as a
whole is closed.
• Create a managed open economy. Put in checks and balances
that will regulate both the flow of the faucet and the outflow
of the drain such that if the two aren’t reasonably close to
equilibrium, then measures to correct it are taken. No one
has managed this yet, either.
• Don’t have a formal currency. Players are going to end up
bartering anyway, so throw in the towel and build for a
barter economy from the beginning. Perhaps have a
throwaway currency that newbies can use, but accept they’ll
rapidly be measuring their wealth using floating-point
numbers and will then switch to the formal barter economy.
We’ll discuss these particular ways of handling virtual world
economies later in this chapter.
There are other ways to look at economies, of course. Some,
such as gift exchange, are promising but as yet unproven; they
may work as part of a more general economy, but don’t seem
strong enough to work alone.
A perennial favorite is to integrate the virtual economy into the
real one. This does have merit—it works for the textual world
Achaea20, for example—but there are limits. Few players will
object to another player paying real-world money for an item to
be given properties that have no gameplay value. For example, a
rich player could pay several thousand dollars to have a
customized sound played whenever they unsheathed their
sword. Other players may find it amusing, tacky, or “unfair”
(that is, they’re jealous that they can’t afford something similar).
However, if the sword doesn’t do any extra damage or convey
any tangible benefits it didn’t have anyway, that’s fine.
20 http://www.achaea.com/
World Design 355
Intangibility is the domain of the real world; paying real money
for something intangible is justifiable. Paying real money for a
tangibly better sword is another matter entirely, though; virtual
worlds hoping to use exactly this as their business model should
pay very close attention to the likes of Achaea to see how to do
it—it requires some very careful balancing and only attracts a
certain breed of player. Designers intending to extend the
model by letting players take real money out of the virtual
economy (Project Entropia21 is the trailblazer here) have
considerable cause to worry— even if they do by some miracle
manage to get their virtual economy to work.
The final point to make about a virtual world’s economy is that
at an abstract level ecologies work the same way. If you have a
closed economy and open ecology (or vice versa) you should ask
yourself why one works in closed form and the other doesn’t.
Information Versus Immersion
Which is better: to tell a player they hit a troll really hard, or to
tell them they did 25 points of damage? The former is what the
character would see; the latter is what many players want to
see. If they do see it, though, it works against immersion: In the
real world, you don’t see numbers appearing every time you hit
something with a hammer, so why should you in the virtual
world?
The last of the major decisions that designers have to make
about their virtual world is the degree to which immersion
should be sacrificed for the benefit of players’ spreadsheets. It’s
easy enough to say, “Oh, let the players themselves decide,” but
there are limits. Also, designers get to determine the default;
21 http://www.project-entropia.com/
356 Chapter 4
what newbies see can have a lasting impact on the culture of a
game.
The trade-off between information and immersion uses a sliding
scale that can be split into three zones:
• Immersion always wins. Players don’t get to see the code
that dictates mobile AI, and that’s final.
• Players choose. Some will see it as “the red bag,” but for
others it’s “bag002.”
• Information always wins. You’re told the name of the
nearby character, whether or not your own character has
ever met them before.
Designers set the boundaries. Although the middle zone allows
for multiple settings (“I want to know how much I’ve been hurt,
but not the true names of objects”), in practice it works fine as a
single, binary setting.
Again, the reason that this seemingly mundane decision
assumes unusually high significance is because by the time it
becomes an issue it’s normally too late to do anything about it.
During testing, everybody wants as much information as they
can get; the capability to switch it off can be left almost as an
afterthought. It needs to be determined right at the beginning.
Players want to see numbers (or stats bars or labels) because it
helps them play. Information given in more circumspect ways is
an unnecessary encoding. Everyone is eventually going to get
the data they want anyway, so why try to hide it? Once numbers
are accepted as part of the virtual world then surely they won’t
thereafter disrupt immersion? In the real world, some objects do
have numbers on them: If I buy a bag of sugar, its weight is
written in bold letters on the side; if I buy a car, it has a license
plate that identifies it uniquely. Freedom of information is good.
World Design 357
Isn’t this obsession with “immersion” just pretentious
nonsense?
In some respects, a designer’s decision of whether to favor
information or immersion is a partial statement of their design
philosophy. Players want information for achievement and killer
purposes (explorers like it too, but then they also like deducing
it when it’s not provided). If you give numbers to newbies,
you’re telling them that this is a virtual world that they should
take by the scruff of the neck and make their own; if you don’t,
you’re saying it’s a mysterious, perhaps dangerous place, where
knowledge reveals itself only through experiment or the
experience of others22
.
Decide what you want to tell them and why. Then tell them.
Geography
Authors of epic Fantasy novels often start with a map. Similarly,
designers of virtual worlds often choose a map as the first
concrete realization of their dreams. In any venture that has
place or travel at its core, a map is the natural starting point. In
constructing a map, not only are ideas given form, but new
ideas are suggested. It’s unlikely that a designer will create a
map only to go back and change it later to account for details
that have arisen from fleshing it out. The design process rarely
backtracks over maps, and therefore they’re an excellent way to
begin developing content.
22 In large-scale games, players will eventually need to be able to switch on
the numbers even if they start out being unable to; this is for the simple
reason that if they can’t, they’ll generate huge numbers of false bug reports
because the virtual world is not behaving exactly how it should (according to
their empirically derived definition of “should”).
358 Chapter 4
Virtual worlds have a more practical reason for doing maps
first, in that there are technical constraints in operation. If the
programmers insist on a zone-based approach, for example, that
directly affects the topography of the world; if the designers
want 200 zones, that affects the topography of the network the
operations team has to support.
Geography is therefore where designers usually begin to turn
their concepts into (virtual) reality.
Geographical Consistency
Throwing paint at a blank canvas does not create the geography
of a virtual world. To be immersive, everything should be where
it is for a reason. Much as a designer might relish the prospect
of creating their planned Magic Shoppe that’s bigger inside than
it is outside23, at this stage it’s only ever going to serve as a
prototype to demonstrate the principles involved. Although not
a bad thing in itself (actually, it’s quite a good thing—I usually
recommend it to newbie developers), piecemeal development of
individual structures is not the way to get a whole world. For
that, you have to take a more top-down approach, through
various levels of abstraction.
These levels (from most general to most specific) are
• The world
• Zones
• Regions
• Areas
• Rooms
23 Or, to be more original, bigger outside than it is inside.
World Design 359
Although in technical terms there may be a multiverse of
parallel worlds (that is, different shards/incarnations), this is not
something that directly affects the geography of a single such
world.
The layout of a world depends, naturally, on its genre. A “world”
for a space opera might consist of several planets; one for a
prohibition-era gangster game could be a single city. At this
level, the main geographic features are placed so as to make
sense. Depending on the scale, this can mean suns, moons,
oceans, continents, rivers, mountains, deserts, forests, parks,
freeways, roads, and so on. The main aims of the designer are
• To create a believable overall map. Rivers run from
mountains to seas; forests don’t appear in deserts; cities
aren’t built on glaciers.
• To partition the world so that it can cluster players. The
world may be huge, but you still want people to meet up (but
not so much that they never go anywhere).
• To allow for the world to be extended, both internally
(“Where can I put the new sponsor’s coffee shop?”) and
externally (“Where do I put the expansion set?”).
• To have room for some ideas you want to put in. “I’d like a
city on the edge of a desert, so I guess I’ll need a river or a
major oasis or no one would have built a city there.”
• To provide for a meaningful ecology and (through resource
placement) economy.
• To be attractive to more than one player type. Just because a
place is a slug-fest, that doesn’t mean interesting flowers
can’t grow there.
• To give themselves ideas. “Hey, that mountain lake would be
perfect for a mystic kingdom of martial arts experts!”
Interestingly, these same aims (apart from external expansion)
apply at all the other levels of abstraction, too. “Hey, that oxbow lake would be perfect for a rowboat-leasing facility!”
360 Chapter 4
Geographical consistency can be achieved in a number of ways.
If spending a few hours learning about plate tectonics will help
you place mountain ranges and volcanoes accurately, do so—
your players will appreciate it. If something doesn’t make sense,
there should be a very important reason for it not to do so. A
player who wonders why there is a perfume factory in the
middle of a quiet residential area24 should be able to figure out
it’s a front for a bootleg distillery, rather than sloppy work by a
designer. If something doesn’t make sense, it should fail for a
reason that does make sense.
An obvious way to get guaranteed geographical consistency is
to replicate parts of the real world virtually. This is particularly
useful for non-game applications, where teaching or exploring a
real location might be a primary aim (“Welcome to Virtual
Venice!”). Fictional worlds that use real-world settings are more
problematical. It can be argued that depicting an environment
with which players are already familiar is good for immersion
(players already know and understand it); however, unless the
depiction is highly accurate, it could be bad (incorrect or
missing details will jar against the player’s knowledge of
reality). There are problems of data-gathering and datamaintaining, both of which are expensive, and if recognizable
real-world buildings appear, there could be legal issues (a virtual
bordello set up in a virtual building, the real-world twin of
which is occupied by a mosque, would bring all kinds of realworld laws to bear). Another problem of using the real world to
give authenticity to the virtual world is that it may not be
authentic in the context: A post-apocalypse Washington, D.C.
24 This assumes that at least one of your world’s settlements is extensive
enough to have a “quiet residential area.” A town in EverQuest is considered
by the players to be “large” if it has 20 buildings.
World Design 361
would be unlikely to contain many of its most famous
monuments, for example.
Unless the designer is trying to make some kind of artistic
point, replicating recognizable parts of the real world in the
virtual world is usually a bad idea. As a rule of thumb, keep realworld proper nouns out of virtual worlds.
If you want geographic consistency, use the levels of geographic
abstraction.
Levels of Geographic Abstraction
Geographers have many different ways to look at this and other
real worlds. They’re experts, after all. Most players of virtual
worlds are not geographers, however, and they’re only going to
notice more obvious errors. A degree of knowledge beyond that
of the average player is always a good thing for a designer to
have, of course, but as soon as players stop noticing what you’re
doing you can stop. Immersion is about not busting players into
reality; it isn’t about teaching them erosion patterns for
sedimentary rocks25. From this point of view, the levels of
abstraction listed in the previous section are sufficient to give a
virtual world all the geographic consistency it needs. Let’s look
at them in more detail.
Zones are a functional partition of the virtual world, imposed for
technical reasons. Not all virtual worlds will have them. Their
usual impact is to consolidate geographical features into zonefriendly blocks. The mountain range will stop short of a zone
boundary, rather than poke a couple of foothills across it; the
river will run through a zone, but not weave over zone
25 I guess this statement wouldn’t apply to a geology-focused educational
virtual world, though.
362 Chapter 4
boundaries and back; the peninsula will jut out just far enough
that it won’t entail a zone change to reach the end of it.
Zones are like the pages in a road atlas, except that you get to
change the geographic features so they’re a tidy fit.
Regions are large swathes of territory that have distinct,
thematic differences at the strategic level. “The north,” for
example, may be cold, populated by hardy, hairy, expansionist
barbarians; “the isles” may be beautiful, lazy paradises whose
inhabitants have a penchant for human sacrifice; “Westside”
may be a neighborhood full of big houses with pools and long
driveways, populated by rich people who have nothing but
contempt for those born across the river.
Regions fit natural geographic boundaries. If they spill across
such a boundary, it’s a cause for conflict. In worlds that have
zones, the two often coincide; this is because players feel zone
boundaries with the same (if not more) intensity that they feel
purely geographical ones. The zone/region relationship is not
necessarily one-to-one—you can have several zones to a region
or several regions to a zone—but it’s usually integral; you won’t
find 1-region zones very often.
Areas are subdivisions of regions that, while thematically
similar at the strategic level, are thematically distinct at the
tactical level. “The north” may consist of “the mountains,” “the
valleys,” “the frozen waste,” “the isle of the gods,” “the lava pits,”
and so on. It’s often the case that areas are specified fully by
individual designers, to ensure an atmospheric consistency
within each area.
Areas are made up of rooms. This is the level at which players
experience the virtual world. The definition of what constitutes
a “room” depends on the way the virtual world is displayed to
players. The options are
World Design 363
• Nodes
• Co-ordinates (tiles)
• Co-ordinates (polygons)
Nodes are points with (potentially) unlimited connections to
other points. These are the dominant paradigm for textual
virtual worlds, although some also use co-ordinate systems.
Normally, a single node represents the smallest unit of position
that players can share, which (in buildings) would be a room—
hence the name.
Formally, tiled co-ordinates are nodal systems that enforce a
rigid relationship between the nodes; you can, in theory,
represent them as freeform nodes. In practice, though,
tessellation is used because it can be implemented easily with
an array. There are often other contributory reasons, but its
mapping to a fast, random-access data structure is the main
one. Arrays allow for automatic content generation for speedy,
shortest-route path-finding and (most importantly) for display
as (2D) graphics.
Textual virtual worlds that use tiled co-ordinates will usually
give the tiles the same status as other nodes—that is, treat each
as a room that more than one player can potentially occupy.
Graphical virtual worlds go for a smaller granularity, with a tile
representing the space that an individual character takes up; for
this reason, they are single-occupancy only, and a subjective
“room” consists of contiguous tiles bordered by ones that
contain walls, doors, windows, and other architectural features.
Both the nodal and tiled approaches define a virtual world in
terms of space. Polygons define it in terms of enclosures.
Characters do occupy co-ordinates, but their world is defined in
terms of barriers—planes through which they cannot move. As
an analogy, consider a piece of graph paper: Nodes define the
364 Chapter 4
lines by numbering the squares; polygons define the squares by
numbering the lines.
Virtual worlds that use co-ordinate systems can be displayed
graphically. The resolution of the co-ordinates in a polygonal
system is yet smaller than that in a tiled system, because
characters themselves are made up of polygons. The concept of
a “room” still exists, as an enclosed space that many characters
can occupy, but it’s not atomic: Characters can be between
rooms, in some kind of transition state; for a nodal system this
location would itself constitute a room.
Of the three, a tessellated system is the least flexible. It doesn’t
have the resolution to handle details; in particular, it doesn’t get
along well with curves. Carefully drawn texture maps can create
illusions of curves, but they’re exposed if players ever do
anything to them (for example, walk on what looks like a gentle
curve but is actually a step).
When 2D is used, it’s normally because it’s relatively easy to
implement, to animate26, and to upgrade27; it’s often the first
choice for hobbyist virtual worlds such as Furcadia28. This may
change as cheap or free full 3D engines become more available29
,
but some people prefer the “pieces on a board” look and the
clear demarcations of space it offers; the 2D approach is
therefore unlikely to go away.
A world made of polygonal planes better represents different
facets of an environment, because of its higher level of detail.
You can easily rotate large objects through arbitrary angles, not
26 Assuming some degree of artistic talent.
27 Updating animations can, however, be more expensive than for a 3D
approach.
28 http://www.furcadia.com
29 Ultima Online now boasts both a 2D and a 3D client for its virtual world.
World Design 365
just 90 degrees. Curves still have angles, but these are small
enough to hide behind texture maps without looking fake30
.
Node-based systems are the most flexible of all, because they
allow for non-Euclidian geometry. In a nodal world, you can exit
a room to the north to enter it from the east; you can walk into a
wardrobe and find Narnia there; you can be inside a room that
contains itself; you can have multiple exits leading to the same
entrance; you can reconnect or destroy nodes, leaving a sealed
void.
The most immediate benefit of a nodal approach is that you
don’t have to use a constant scale. A journey to the top floor of a
tower can take as long as the journey across a mountain range.
Important details can thus be given close attention, whereas
unimportant ones can be dismissed as part of a broad sweep.
The world can focus on what matters, matching the way that a
cognitive map built up in a player’s mind works. Worlds
founded on a co-ordinate system are limited to real-world
physics, and don’t have this level of refinement. On the other
hand, they can be represented graphically, which can’t be said of
an unrestricted nodal system.
An issue affecting all these approaches is what to do at their
edges. If you keep walking east what happens? There are a
number of tried-and-trusted ways to deal with this situation:
• Wrap around. If you go east forever, you end up back where
you started—just like with the real world.
30 There are limits, though. In a demonstration of a new role-playing game at
a computer show, I found I could hide my character completely in the texture
map of a tree that overflowed the space that the tree formally occupied.
Great for ambushes!
366 Chapter 4
• Physical boundary. There’s an unclimbable cliff,
unswimmable river, unnavigable ocean, impassable forest in
the way.
• Big stick. If you walk too far into the desert, the sun is going
to bake you dead no matter how well-prepared you thought
you were.
• Emotional boundary. Your character “doesn’t want” to go any
further. You might, but you don’t control your character.
• Notice. If you try to go too far, you’re given a polite message
explaining that the designers have failed to provide the
necessary content.
• Invisible wall. There’s no explanation, you just can’t move off
the board.
Of these, the physical boundary is the most popular as it’s
within the context of the virtual world and leaves open the door
to further expansion. Unfortunately, it’s so popular that its
expression can lead to cliché. “Hmm, the sea. Looks like I’ve
reached the western edge of the map, then.” There is a great
opportunity for imaginative solutions here.
Terrain
Terrain is what geography is made of. It also has levels of
abstraction, matching the needs of the thematic levels. Someone
designing a region might decide to place a forest; someone
designing an area might decide to place a wood; someone
designing a wood might decide to place a tree. Terrain is the
paint that depicts the image a designer wants to convey.
The different types of terrain that are available to a virtual
world depend on that world, of course. Swampland isn’t
necessary for a virtual world set entirely indoors, for example.
Tempting though it is to go straight to an atlas and look at the
symbols it uses, there are more scientific ways of determining
terrain that allow for more realistic tangible effects. For a
World Design 367
generic, outdoors, continent-scale kind of virtual world, the
following dimensions are likely to be more useful:
• Elevation
• Surface geology (rock, soil, water, sand, and so on)
• Vegetation (none, grass, scrub, cultivation, trees, and so on)
• Cover (none, snow, ash, and so on)
• Volume (air, water, mist, and so on)
Thus you can have a hill, a forested hill, a snow-covered,
forested hill, and so on. The particular types of forest would
depend on the level of abstraction (jungle, mangrove swamp,
pine, oak, whatever).
Explicitly representing each layer allows for a virtual world to
give different terrains different properties. Graphical worlds
benefit the most from this as they need the texture maps, but
they can use them for other things, too (movement speed,
footprints/footfalls, ambient sounds). However, even textual
worlds can profit from giving rooms a terrain property:
Trivially, if you drop a glass bottle on a paved road, it’ll shatter;
if you drop it on a sandy beach, it won’t. Multi-layered terrain
will also allow you to spot incongruities, such as underwater
snow, but to be honest anyone stupid enough to do something
like that is going to be too stupid to check for it anyway.
Ah, yes, weather…
The first time I went to San Diego, U.S. customs hauled my bag
out of the X-ray machine and made me open it because they
couldn’t figure out what I had in it. The object perplexing them
turned out to be my umbrella.
I’m from England. We have weather in England. Weather affects
terrain. Calm seas can become rough, trees in forests can sway,
snow can turn to slush, grassland can become marsh, streets
368 Chapter 4
can turn to rivers, hail stones the size of golf balls can appear
with no warning in mid-July and set off the alarms of every car
parked within a square kilometer31. A persistent world with a
climate appropriate to its geography is more believable than one
that’s the same the whole year round32. You don’t need a
sophisticated model to decide the prevailing winds, the
temperature, and therefore the cloud cover and likely
precipitation. Just because it’s always blazing sunshine where
you live, that doesn’t mean it should be like that in your virtual
world. Those lush green pastures have to get their water from
somewhere.
The second time I went to San Diego, I left my umbrella behind.
It rained so hard it stripped the paper off billboards. The locals
were unfazed, as it had been forecast for two weeks. Augh!
Using a systematic approach to terrain makes moderating the
effects of weather much easier. It has another, equally nice
feature, which although not yet used a great deal could
nevertheless be the answer to some designers’ prayers: implicit
terrain.
In Lord of the Rings, all the action takes place in just a few
regions. Vast swathes of Middle Earth are not affected by the
conflict to any great degree. If you were designing a virtual
world in this setting, you’d want to ignore those places the
players weren’t going to be interested in and concentrate on
those they were. Unfortunately, the result would be rather
patchy. In players’ minds, maps should at the very least be
rectangular; if they’ve read Lord of the Rings, they’d expect the
virtual world to match the maps in the books, too.
31 Not that I’m speaking from personal experience or anything.
32 Even if it’s not entirely believable, the players will like the variety it offers.
The lakes in Asheron’s Call 2 freeze in its winter, allowing characters to walk
across them.
World Design 369
Content costs money. Even mundane content costs money.
There may only be one or two sites of interest in the Misty
Mountains, but if the entire map were being represented
virtually, then some designer still has to place every tree on
every slope leading to every jagged peak in the whole range.
That’s a lot of effort, just to pacify the occasional player who
wanders by.
The overall map shows what the general terrain in a region is,
even down to the area level. It’s only when the map has to be
realized as actual polygons that its creation becomes tedious.
This is where implicit terrain comes in.
Implicit terrain uses a guiding terrain type (that of its area) plus
a random number seed (based on its co-ordinates) to generate
actual terrain on-the-fly. When a player enters an area, only
then is the content for it created. Any changes made by the
player (for example, burying treasure) are recorded so as to
supersede the implicit definition, but everything else can be
discarded after the player leaves. It’s less efficient in
implementation terms than an explicit representation, but more
than makes up for this in designer efficiency. Random mobiles
can be created for an area to spice it up, but on the whole they
are only there because players are passing through and would
notice if they weren’t. Having terrain that’s defined in layers
makes for easier fractal area generation than terrain that’s
defined by natural language terms33
.
Most designers won’t have this problem of a map that’s too big.
However, that doesn’t mean implicit terrain can’t be of use to
33 Star Wars Galaxies has a terrain-generation tool that fleshes out a basic
model explicitly, allowing the designer to concentrate on placing only the
gameplay-specific features of interest.
370 Chapter 4
them. In particular, it can step in to generate content whenever
a player walks off the map. Players can be dissuaded from going
too far by including ever-tougher mobiles, but then it doesn’t
really matter if they do go on forever— the geography can
always be generated for their co-ordinates. It won’t be
compelling content, of course, but it removes the problem of
clichéd boundaries. If you’re doing a virtual world set in space
and you want an infinite universe, well, you can have one.
Movement
Movement in virtual worlds is, strictly speaking, merely a
specific form of object state transition. Because it’s the tool that
players use to construct their cognitive map of the
environment, however, it has enhanced significance—at least in
the minds of players (which is what designers are designing for).
The geography of virtual worlds must account for how players
will build it in their heads, which depends not only on what they
see but also on how they see it. Because virtual world
geographies are too big to experience in a single event,
movement heavily influences both.
So, let’s take a brief look at the various ways to move through
virtual worlds, and consider the geographical34 implications.
Basic movement occurs between contiguous locations. These
locations will either be nodes or points. To transfer from one
location to another, players must issue a movement command
(or, in rare instances, fail to issue a cease-movement command).
There are four main ways to do this, none of which are mutually
exclusive (that is, you can have them all if you want):
34 And, for towns and cities, architectural.
World Design 371
• Absolute directions. These are the classic ones that use the
points of the compass. North, northeast, east, and so on.
• Relative directions. These treat the character as the point
of origin, and align with their line of sight. Left, right,
forward, and so on.
• Contextual directions. Commands have different
meanings depending on the context. In, out, back, and so
on.
• Landmark directions. These move you toward a location
that contains a major feature. Swamp, tower, shop, and
so on.
Most textual and 2D graphical worlds favor absolute directions.
Most 3D graphical worlds favor relative directions.
Absolute directions are preferred in textual worlds for three
reasons:
• Room descriptions don’t have to take into account the point
of view of each character. Note that if this is why you want
absolute directions, you can’t simultaneously have relative
directions.
• Absolute directions are much easier for players to map with
than relative directions. Players prefer them, when given a
free choice of which to use.
• In English, the four main compass points have unique,
single-letter abbreviations; the four intermediate points
have unique, double-letter abbreviations. None of these clash
with other abbreviations for common commands.
Abbreviations for relative directions are clunkier (“sl” for
“slide left”) and they do clash with other common commands
(“l” could be either “left” or “look”).
2D virtual worlds use absolute directions because they present a
fixed view of the virtual world. They may allow 90-degree
rotation, but it’s always clear which way is north. 3D virtual
372 Chapter 4
worlds present the player with a character’s eye view of the
environment, therefore all movement is relative to the
character’s line of sight. Absolute direction may be determined
from a second, “radar scan” panel, but then again this could use
relative directions too.
It’s possible to track absolute directions from relative ones, of
course, but it’s tedious. Given that most players prefer absolute
directions so that mapping (real and cognitive) is easier,
absolute directions should usually be provided as a
convenience35. Yes, relative directions are the more realistic (no
one has a compass stapled to their nose), but if you insist on
having them then expect players to get lost.
Getting lost is the main issue that virtual geography must
address. Although occasionally losing your way isn’t necessarily
a bad thing (especially if you’re exploring), if it happens often it
means that players haven’t been able to build a working model
in their heads of how the virtual world is laid out. Such
confusion causes frustration (which is bad enough) and further
it suggests to newbies that the whole system is confusing
(which is worse). If a virtual world is so badly designed that you
can’t even walk from A to B without getting lost, what chance is
there you’ll be able to figure out spells or combat or the
manufacture of horseshoes?
In order not to get lost, a player needs to measure two things:
distance and orientation. In nodal worlds, distance is a problem
because it’s measured in rooms, not in unit lengths. It’s possible
to go north, east, south, and arrive at the same location as if
35 This isn’t to say that players will use them properly. Over the years, I’ve
encountered several players with “east-west dyslexia,” a condition whereby
they have a completely accurate, functioning map in their head that is a
mirror image of the one in every other player’s head. Making pictorial maps
available to newbies stamped out the problem.
World Design 373
you’d gone east five times. Worse, you could go northeast and
southwest and not end up where you started. For this reason,
contextual and landmark commands are used, so that players
can get back to somewhere they know relatively easily. Most
landmark commands are hardwired into the virtual world, but
actually there’s no reason why players shouldn’t be able to
create their own. Route-finding algorithms are fast and efficient,
and as long as they don’t check things a player couldn’t know
(such as whether an intervening door is open or locked shut) it
should be fine to allow potentially any static geographical
feature to be used as a landmark.
Graphical worlds satisfy the distance criterion for not getting
lost, but they don’t deal with the direction one very well.
Furthermore, they don’t normally have the interface to allow
explicit lost-busting contextual or landmark commands, relying
as they do on mouse and arrow keys36. If they want such
commands, they have to provide them implicitly in the
environment. Players go “into” a room because there’s a single
door. The tower is a “landmark” because it’s the tallest structure
for miles around.
Landmarks are important because players use them as
reference points37. Not all reference points are landmarks in the
“being highly visible” sense, though. Inns, underground caves,
shrines, sunken oases—people may well regard these as points
of reference, but not see them until they’re close up. In this
event, graphical virtual worlds should provide players pointers
to show directions: Roads, rivers, and (of course) signposts can
help in this regard.
36 There are other devices, of course, such as joysticks and VR rigs, but they
have the same problems.
37 Some virtual worlds give players access to the co-ordinate system so they
can associate explicit reference points to positions.
374 Chapter 4
Some environments are more likely to get players lost than
others. The main culprits are:
• Featureless landscapes, such as deserts.
• Landscapes packed with similar features, such as forests.
• Landscapes that frequently change. “The hills are alive!”
• Deliberately disorienting “crazy angle” vistas designed to
convey alienness.
• Landscapes you have to traverse at speed with sudden,
arbitrary direction changes. “Velociraptors! Run for your
life!”
• Twisting, turning, irregular passageways. Mazes you
can’t steer clear of are not fun.
If you don’t want people to get lost, avoid these. If you can’t,
then be sure that entering them is optional.
So far, I’ve only discussed contiguous movement. Characters
also regularly travel using discontiguous movement—that is,
teleporting. This is like moving using landmark directions,
except movement to the landmark is instantaneous.
Teleportation has implications for several aspects of virtual
worlds (particularly the economy), but we’ll just look at the
geographical ones for now.
One of MUD1’s most influential early players, Mark Longley,
used to go to London by train fairly regularly. On arrival, he’d
take the underground to the stop nearest whatever museum,
exhibition hall, or Science Fiction bookshop he was visiting,
walk the short distance to his destination, then return the same
way. He once explained to me that his geographical knowledge
of surface London consisted only of disconnected small areas
within a short radius of underground stations, and it was quite
a surprise when he looked at a map and discovered just how
close some of the stations were in real life.
World Design 375
Virtual worlds with teleports are like Mark’s version of London.
They may be huge and packed with interesting things, but if
people can use portals, then they’ll never see anything any
distance from one. The fact that most virtual worlds (unlike
London) rarely have anything worth seeing on the walk between
portals only compounds the problem. It’s not so much a virtual
world as a collection of virtual sub-worlds.
This may be okay with some designers. Content can gravitate
toward portals in the same way that burger restaurants
gravitate toward road intersections. It does, however, mean that
much cohesion is lost, and it can greatly reduce the sense of awe
that players experience on visiting a place for the first time.
Atmosphere relies as much on anticipation as it does delivery;
enchantment is enhanced by surprise, not by guide books.
These problems can be alleviated to some extent (at least in
graphical worlds) by the use of better fiction that makes travel
faster but not immediate. If characters can increase their speed
by riding on a horse or taking a boat ride, they get to see the
local terrain and will arrive at their destination with a better
idea of where it is. Failing that, travel could proceed while the
player is offline: Tramping across salt flats is boring, but if your
character does it while you’re asleep in the real world, what’s it
to you? Travel this way doesn’t have to be dangerous—it
effectively works by “slow portals”—but at least it gives an idea
of how far you’ve traveled (if not exactly where to).
So, when designing your virtual world’s geography, remember
that people will have to experience it. Give them landmarks,
give them maps, give them co-ordinates if you must—just make
sure, however you do it, that they know where they are. Then,
they can decide where to go.
376 Chapter 4
Settlements
Many virtual worlds contain virtual buildings. Although some of
these may be isolated (farmhouses, cottages, wizards’ towers),
worlds created to a bigger scale will want settlements.
Settlements in this context are collections of buildings (or one
huge building with lots of rooms—a castle, say, or a space
station). Most of the time they will be occupied, but ruined
settlements are also possible.
It should go without saying that settlements are positioned
where they are for a reason. Virtual worlds are more believable
if their settlements are built in locations that make sense. A
town with no access to fresh water or no trade routes to other
settlements will cause anyone who gives them a moment’s
thought to raise an eyebrow. Unfortunately, many designers are
oblivious to such formalities. They’re quite happy to put a
ruined city on the side of a mountain and say it’s the site of a
massacre of humans by dwarfs, but they’re less concerned about
what the humans who lived there would have eaten.
There are many reasons why large-population cities in the real
world are built where they are. Most grow from smaller
settlements, although some are founded by rulers (for example,
Baghdad, Munich, St. Petersburg, Washington D.C.). To prosper,
all of them need
• Plenty of level ground
• Access to food and water
• Nearby building materials
• A non-threatening climate/geology/geography
• Communication links
• A population
World Design 377
If they are close to natural resources and are in an easily
defensible position, so much the better.
Note that for many virtual worlds, some of these criteria are not
necessary from a strictly gameplay point of view. Food and
water are only needed if characters need to eat and drink;
characters are generally impervious to the effects of climate;
communication is often instantaneous. Indeed, people may only
want to have a house at all so they have somewhere to store
their stuff. That’s not how real-world settlements form.
For virtual worlds designed under license, settlements have to
appear where the map says they do. Even so, it doesn’t
necessarily hurt to put roads, springs, forests, and cornfields in
the vicinity. Designers of other virtual worlds have more
freedom to put cities where they want, but more responsibility
to put them somewhere non-idiotic. As with many aspects of
virtual world design, the key is to do your research: A few hours
spent skimming through a textbook for first-year Town
Planning undergraduates will give you the rudiments of
settlement organization (which are all you need). With a virtual
world, you don’t only get to place a settlement where you want
it in relation to other settlements, but you can change the
geography to accommodate it. There really is no excuse for
carelessness. The usual rule of rule-breaking applies: If a
settlement is in a place you wouldn’t normally find a settlement,
there’s some in-context reason it’s in such a place (for example,
the religious inhabitants don’t want contact with outsiders).
Note that smaller virtual worlds, especially ones that don’t have
a high degree of persistence, may use social places, such as inns,
as hubs (rather than resort to full-blown settlements). The
placement rules for these will differ, but they’ll nevertheless still
exist; don’t just plunk them down anywhere.
378 Chapter 4
Given these basic laws for positioning settlements (or
whatever), the next issue is applying them to derive the
configuration that designers want. Settlements invariably serve
some gameplay purpose; they’re not there merely to provide yet
more background color. Although some locations are so natural
that a settlement just has to occupy them (the estuaries of major
rivers, the heads of deltas, the desert oasis on a major caravan
route), the positioning of the rest depends on what designers
want out of them—in particular, whether or not they want
players to visit them. Often, settlements will be centers of trade,
where players can go to sell their stuff and buy better stuff.
They’re also frequently places where players get quests. Thus,
they act as focal points and can foster a sense of community; in
worlds that allow for property ownership, they can become the
physical embodiment of communities.
If there are too few settlements, players will crowd out the ones
that do exist. It’s less of a problem if there are too many, as
players will gravitate to just a few and leave the others as
testimonies to designers’ wasted time.
Ideally, settlements should fail or flourish by a process of
survival of the fittest. At a superficial level, this looks easy: The
ones that players frequent should expand to offer new
opportunities and services; the ones that are forgotten should
atrophy away to become ghost towns. Unfortunately, this is
easier said than done: The majority population of most
settlements consists of non-player characters, who won’t
necessarily be easy to move (even from a purely
implementational point of view). More worryingly, they could
look useless but perform an important function indirectly. For
example, players may never visit the mining town but if it
produces all the iron that the artisans in the big city use to
make armor, closing it down would be a mistake. In a
sophisticated virtual world with interlinked economies,
ecologies, and communities, measuring the success of a
World Design 379
settlement merely by the number of player-occupied houses is
not enough.
Should players be able to build their own settlements? This
would allow for them to appear spontaneously where designers
(deliberately or otherwise) left a hole. Ultima Online allowed it
from the beginning, but other virtual worlds can have technical
reasons for not permitting it: Asheron’s Call only lets players buy
prebuilt housing, for example, because its long-term story arc
could suddenly call for a volcano to appear beneath a shanty
town otherwise. On the whole, though, player-built settlements
are simply too powerful a retention tool to dismiss; for longterm persistent virtual worlds, if player-created settlements
make any kind of sense at all then designers should aim to
facilitate their creation.
This isn’t actually as easy as it sounds. Virtual worlds need
virtual inhabitants as well as real ones. Settlements that don’t
have NPCs in them won’t be as functional as those that do. From
where do they acquire their denizens?
There are three main ways to do it:
• Sleight of hand. When the settlement reaches a certain size,
NPCs appear. Other than in defining the boundaries (and
therefore size) of a settlement, the only disadvantages of this
to speak of are that it isn’t exactly convincing and it can lead
to NPC inflation (that is, the more NPCs there are, the less
the value of each one).
• Bought in. With these, buildings that operate services come
with their own staff. If your community clubs together and
funds the construction of a cobbler’s shop, it comes
automatically with a cobbler. This is marginally more
realistic and allows for a greater variety of towns, but can
still lead to NPC inflation. If every town builds a cobbler’s
shop, how does this affect the price of shoes?
380 Chapter 4
• Economics. NPCs periodically look at how their business is
going, and if it’s poor, they move to somewhere else where it
won’t be poor. This is the most realistic solution of all, but it
needs a good economic model to underpin it—one that can
be used predictively so NPCs can speculate where a good
market may be38
.
Construction time is another issue. If major buildings can
spring up overnight, then it doesn’t bode well for a sense of
realism. Unfortunately, if it takes a realistic time, then it doesn’t
bode well for community management: Impatient players will
complain if it takes a whole week to build an entire castle, let
alone a modest dwelling (although this can be alleviated if you
make them build in stages). Let them build in stages. There’s a
case for having some delay, even if the fiction can support
instant houses (“Just plant the house seed where you want it to
grow, then water it and stand back”). A wait can heighten the
anticipation, especially if progress is visible. Too long, though,
and it becomes frustrating39. It’s up to you where you draw the
line.
Perhaps the most noticeable thing about the settlements in
virtual worlds is that they aren’t actually all that large.
EverQuest’s towns have perhaps 50 buildings in them— they’re
mere hamlets. Big textual worlds can have many more, but they
suffer from not “looking” big. If graphical worlds had 5,000
buildings, that would be more like it! Unfortunately, this would
depend on their having a capability to support significant
numbers of NPCs that most of them severely lack (because of
38 It won’t be able to account for intangible effects, though. A community of
pacifist players who don’t buy weapons would attract NPC weaponsmiths to
set up shop because all they see is a large population of characters who don’t
have weapons—exactly what they’re looking for!
39 “God should have made the gestation period for humans six months
instead of nine”: discuss.
World Design 381
the degree of AI needed to control the little dears). Also, many
designers see little point in having large numbers of pretend
people in a virtual world that can boast several thousand real
ones40
.
Nevertheless, I look forward to the day when I can visit a virtual
city populated by tens of thousands of virtual players, each of
whom has their own life to live and their own place in their
virtual society. That would really be quite something.
Population
Let’s take a closer look at the inhabitants of virtual worlds.
Basically, there are three sorts:
• Characters. These are run by players.
• Non-player characters. These are run by the virtual world.
They look like players’ characters, and would think they
were the same if given the AI.
• Monsters. These are run by the virtual world, but neither
look like nor think they are players’ characters.
We’ll start with the effect that NPC population has on the fabric
of the virtual world because it raises issues important to the
other two. Note that there is also a shadowy fourth sort of
inhabitant, non-player players, which accounts for people who
need to visit the virtual world but not play in it; I’ll consider
these separately last.
40 This situation is likely to change under pressure from epic-scale, singleplayer role-playing games (Bethesda Softworks’ Morrowind set the alarm
bells ringing).
382 Chapter 4
Non-Player Characters
What are non-player characters for? They
• Buy, sell, and make stuff.
• Provide services.
• Guard places.
• Get killed for loot.
• Dispense quests (or clues for other NPCs’ quests).
• Supply background information (history, lore, cultural
attitudes).
• Do stuff for players.
• Make the place look busy.
In buying, selling, and making stuff, they’re normally just
fictional conveniences; they may as well be vending machines.
Similarly, in providing services (training, repairs, healing spells,
and so on), they are interface conceits: Designers want the
players to be able to obtain the services in question, and NPCs
are the mechanism that has evolved to dress up what’s
happening so it fits in context. Their being player-friendly helps;
they don’t look like vending machines.
Guards exist for the same general reason: They’re the way
designers traditionally choose to enforce a range of gameplay
elements that require some justification if not to seem arbitrary.
For example, suppose players are to be prevented from
attacking one another within a city’s walls; one way to effect
this would be simply to tell them that they can’t. This is
unsatisfactory because it’s out-of-context—why can’t they?
Furnishing an explanation along the lines of “you’d never get
away with it” is slightly better, but still not ideal: Let players be
the judge of whether they’d get away with it, not some invisible
commentator. By introducing guards, players can find out for
themselves that they indeed won’t get away with it. Guards are
almost invariably unbelievably tough. Characters that routinely
World Design 383
hew down hordes of rampaging giants remain impotent against
guards. This is because guards that are unable to guard might
as well not be there. Guards that are regularly beatable are
meant to be regularly beatable, and therefore aren’t guarding
any location or state of affairs that the designer really doesn’t
want to be violated. These “guards” therefore fall into the “get
killed for loot” category. NPCs of this sort are basically just
regular monsters that look like player characters (PCs). They
may be slightly smarter than their monster brethren, but
essentially they’re there to be hacked and slain. Rarely do these
NPCs have names.
NPCs that dispense quests may double up as one of the other
kinds of NPC, but in general they have a special status. Indeed,
they may be so special that they’re elevated to having their own,
distinct personalities. Even so, they’re still principally a front to
allow players to communicate with the virtual world without
feeling silly. Their job is to give players things to do and then to
remunerate them once they have done it. Beyond that, they’re
mere flavor text.
Quest dispenser NPCs get players to do things for them. With
sidekick NPCs, it’s the other way round: They do things for
players. Although nominally independent, sidekicks are in
essence mere extensions of the player’s character. Though
presented as henchmen/ henchwomen, servants or
familiars/pets41, they’re really just a way to extend the powers of
a player. Too many objects to carry? Employ a porter or pack
animal. Can’t find someone to heal you after a fight? Hire the
necessary skills in the form of a cleric. Sidekicks aren’t usually
used in larger games, as players themselves are intended to
undertake the necessary roles. Besides, if a group of 25 players
and their 25 sidekicks were trying to act in concert all
41 A DikuMUD favorite that has since become standard in graphical worlds.
384 Chapter 4
semblance of organization would rapidly disappear. Players do
still need mules, but in those situations they create secondary
player characters instead.
Lore providers are like online manuals. Players can consult
them to find out things they want to know, or be accosted by
them to be told things they don’t want to know but, dammit, it’s
for their own good that they do. Lore providers can be
standalone, but they will often have some other function too (for
example, quest dispenser).
The final type of NPC is the extra. These wander around as part
of the background. Any attempts by players to bring them to
the foreground (for example, by communicating with them,
stealing from them, shooting arrows at them) are rewarded
with a canned or inert response. Extras don’t feature highly in
virtual worlds; because players can routinely interact with one
another, they are disappointed when confronted with NPCs that
have no obvious reason to exist.
Okay, so I admit that this summary of NPC types is perhaps a
little cynical. There are plenty of virtual worlds where even the
monsters can have personalities42, let alone the NPCs. The
problem is that there are too few such worlds. When a virtual
world is alive with real players, designers don’t feel the need to
make NPCs more than ciphers for interacting with the virtual
world. Players objectify NPCs in a way that only killer types
objectify PCs.
Again, though, things are changing. Virtual world technology is
driven by the big, graphical games, which in turn are driven by
their hard-core players. The hard-core players play other
42 MUD2 has a baby dwarf that players are strangely reticent to kill, at least
until it howls and alerts the other 50 dwarfs in the vicinity.
World Design 385
computer games, particularly single-player role-playing games.
When they see NPCs in these games that are above and beyond
what they encounter in virtual worlds, they perceive virtual
worlds to be behind the times.
They have a point, too. Virtual worlds have a much longer
lifespan than ordinary computer games. A game from five years
ago will look very dated by current standards, of course, but it
isn’t just a graphics issue: Gameplay that was cutting edge five
years ago can seem dated, too (albeit less so). Virtual worlds
have to adapt and evolve if they are to keep up with the times.
There is an argument that textual games don’t become dated
because people’s imaginations don’t become dated43; in her tour
de force 1994 exploration of the Internet44, J.C. Herz asserts that
no graphical virtual world could ever match the imagery
present in LambdaMOO—a sentiment with which the players of
many textual worlds would agree. This may be true of the
imagery, but it’s not (yet) true of the gameplay.
NPCs embody gameplay elements; therefore, if gameplay seems
dated, then its associated NPCs will seem dated, too. Players
don’t want dated content.
Just because players want something, that’s not a reason to give
it to them, of course. Design is about consequences, and players
don’t always accept them. Creating a fully rounded personality
for a non-player character has been demonstrably possible since
the days of Floyd from Steve Meretzky’s Planetfall45, but it takes
a lot of effort. In a graphical virtual world, there’s also the issue
of animating different personalities. Slimy, sycophantic advisors
have different body language than confident, cruel despots.
43 There is another argument that suggests they don’t become dated because
they’re dated to begin with.
44 Herz, J. C., Surfing on the Internet. New York, Little, Brown, 1995.
45 Steve Meretzky, Planetfall. Cambridge MA, Infocom, 1983.
386 Chapter 4
Animating such differences is a painstaking art. Motion capture
can help, but it doesn’t work for dragons.
In other words, creating fully rounded NPCs is an expensive
business, especially in graphical worlds, and very especially if
you want 10,000 of them. Players who require intelligent NPCs
can expect to have to pay more to get them.
Yet the same applies to many single-player role-playing games.
Baldur’s Gate II46 has several hundred NPCs; some of these are so
rounded that they can (act as if they) fall in love, but most are
there either as plot hooks or local color. Nevertheless, it’s
possible to speak to all of them, even if they don’t actually have
anything meaningful to say. The mechanism for interaction is
simplistic—the same, select-response-from-a-menu deal that
the original Ultima series used—but it’s better than the nothing
you get from unidimensional virtual world NPCs. Textual
virtual worlds sometimes implement a similar approach that
masks the actual number of choices available (you might have to
“ask guard about prisoner” rather than selecting it as an option
from a list), but only for a few specific NPCs. Beyond that, there
are pattern-matching schemes47 based on Joseph Weizenbaum’s
classic Eliza48, and hugely sophisticated bots like Michael
Mauldin’s Julia49 (although these don’t have a gameplay role).
Artificial Intelligence research is ever-advancing. It’s
unreasonable to expect virtual world designers to ask
46 James Ohlen and Kevin Martens (lead designers), Baldur’s Gate II: Shadows
of Amn. Irvine CA, Black Isle Studios, 2000.
47 Formally, these are known as “case-based reasoning.”
48 Joseph Weizenbaum, ELIZA—A Computer Program for the Study of Natural
Language Communication between Man and Machine. New York, Vol. 9 no. 1,
Communications of the ACM, January 1966.
49 Michael L. Mauldin, Chatterbots, Tinymuds, And The Turing Test: Entering
The Loebner Prize Competition. Menlo Park CA, Proceedings AAAI 12, 1994.
World Design 387
programmers to endow NPCs with the latest technology, but
even a few 20-year-old ideas would make a big difference. So
why don’t virtual worlds contain more intelligent NPCs?
The usual explanations are as follows:
• They don’t need them because they have real players
instead. (Yet they do need dumb NPCs?)
• Smartening up NPCs would be too expensive. (So how do
single-player role-playing games seem to manage it?)
• It takes too long to add AI to NPCs in virtual worlds. So
much other stuff has to go in beforehand that it’s just
unnecessary icing on the cake. (But a small team of AI
experts couldn’t work on it from the beginning?)
• Artificially intelligent NPCs are never convincing and always
spoil immersion. (More or less than artificially unintelligent
NPCs do?)
• Neither the designers nor the programmers are familiar
with AI. (And they can’t ever become familiar with it50?)
• Players don’t like NPCs that are too clever. (So don’t make
them too clever51?)
• It’s inappropriate for this particular virtual world. (Finally, a
valid excuse. You may have a fiction that explains why NPCs
are stupid—time travel to Neanderthal times, for example)
In most cases, the reasons that virtual worlds don’t have
intelligent NPCs are to do with complacency, inexperience, and
(for free virtual worlds) lack of resources. However, there is also
a view of “if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.” There may be only scant
50 I did a PhD in AI because of its applicability to virtual worlds, although I
wouldn’t necessarily recommend this degree of enthusiasm to everyone.
51 I put a simple expert system into MUD2 to control mobiles in fights, but
toned it down because it turned out to be better than many players. It’s
merely a question of balance.
388 Chapter 4
justification for not making NPCs more rounded, but that hardly
amounts to an incentive to unflatten them. Why should virtual
worlds contain more intelligent NPCs?
There are only two reasons.
The first reason is that even minor personality quirks in an NPC
can give players some reason to care. Players can
anthropomorphize NPCs very well, and are happy to do so in a
virtual world. It’s not that NPCs have any intrinsic meaning, but
that players can invest them with it.
As an example, suppose that the NPC mother of a young NPC
boy asks for your help to get a saucepan off his head. It’s just a
little quest. Next time, she asks you to get him down from a tree
he’s climbed. Maybe she hits him when he’s rescued, maybe she
hugs him and cries with relief; it’s still just another little quest.
The time after that, he’s got his head stuck in a fence; the time
after that he’s locked himself in a cellar. You come to know the
two NPCs—the reckless child and the self-critical mother—and
if you need a small filler quest you’ll often pay them a visit.
Then, one day, the mother comes running to you. Her son was
dragged off before her eyes by some kind of red-eyed demon.
She’s hysterical. He kept crying, “Mommy!,” she tried to save
him but the beast hit her, by the gods, please, can’t you help?
Now the situation has meaning. You and the NPCs have a
history. The mother didn’t go to any other PC, she went to you.
Are you going to leave her son to be eaten alive? No way!
So that’s the first reason: It enables players to form emotional
attachments to objects in the virtual world; these relationships
can then be stressed to add drama and give players cause to
ponder their own actions. The relationships aren’t anywhere
near as strong as between real people, naturally, but they’re
World Design 389
there. They give the player a reason to feel a part of the virtual
world.
The second reason, you’ll either comprehend instantly or it’ll
take an epiphany. It’s this: Imagine it! Imagine a virtual world
with thousands of virtual people living virtual lives—each with
their own goals, their own relationships, their own existence. A
living, breathing, self-sustaining creation! Doesn’t that fill you
with awe? Don’t you want to go there? Don’t you want to see
what they’ll do, and do it with them? Wouldn’t that truly be a
virtual world?
If so, you get it: I don’t have to explain further. If not, there’s
little point in my trying to explain! All I can do is pose the
following question: Should those lacking a god’s motivation
assume a god’s powers?
There are other reasons why having intelligent NPCs is good,
but their effects can be achieved using other mechanisms. The
most important of these concerns the fact that even the biggest
virtual worlds don’t have enough PCs to sustain their systems
and, even if they did, few players would want to do the mundane
things that occupy NPCs. Who craves a career as a city guard?
Players visit virtual worlds because they offer experiences that
they don’t get in the real one; they don’t want a “real life” in a
virtual world. NPCs, on the other hand, live in the virtual world,
so their “real life” consists of doing the kind of things players
would do in their real “real lives.”
For example, some people want power. In this context, “power”
means power over someone. Players won’t tolerate being under
other players’ thumbs for long, therefore NPCs are needed to
fulfill the roles of functionaries and foot soldiers. Similarly,
players don’t buy or sell enough objects to sustain an economy,
therefore NPCs should engage in commerce to ensure that
prices rise or fall appropriately. The collective behavior of NPCs
390 Chapter 4
can be used to regulate reputation systems, consequences for
high/low status/fashion, rumor propagation/decay, the
growth/decline of settlements, elections to office, and many
other useful “background” tasks that contribute prominently to
the experience of players but in which players themselves are
loathe to get involved. If NPCs report their feelings when asked,
this can add even more: I might not care that the NPC wants to
tell me about the nearby ruin I already visited five times, but I’d
certainly care to know whether that NPC was thinking of voting
for me in the upcoming Guild of Mercenaries elections.
Giving individual NPCs more capacity for self-determination is
one way to implement these behaviors. Another way, though, is
to model the actions of NPCs as a whole, rather than
individually. For example, instead of each NPC deciding when
they need to buy a new gown and the price they’re willing to pay
for it, a general model of NPC buying habits can be used to
calculate the overall demand curve for gowns and the impact
that this has on price. This is easier to engineer, less expensive
to program, and simpler to fine-tune than its micro-economic
counterpart, although it’s also more predictable and not as
robust. It’s a viable alternative to using hordes of independent
NPCs to obtain the same effect. If you have those hordes for
other reasons, though, it makes sense to arrange for their
collective behavior to emerge from their individual actions,
rather than simulating it and having the two diverge.
It could be argued that if a virtual world needs intelligent NPCs,
making them artificially intelligent is the wrong route to take.
Why not employ actors to control NPCs, and get intelligence of
the natural variety? Set up an office in Hollywood where
wannabe actors are endemic and it wouldn’t even be all that
expensive.
I have two objections to this, one practical and one
philosophical.
World Design 391
The practical objection I outlined earlier. Going hands-on works
for small, intimate virtual worlds, but not for ones with large
numbers of players—it’s hard to maintain non-superficial
relationships with 200 people. Players are deeply suspicious of
vendettas, favoritism, and other imagined ways to cheat; if they
find that you sent one more monster against them than you did
against some other group, they will whine incessantly52, no
matter how much fun they had. They don’t generally like talking
to patronizing, in-character, support staff at the best of times.
Besides, it would be expensive to hire actors in quantity, even in
Hollywood.
The philosophical objection is that one of the major goals of
virtual worlds is self-reliance. Computers, not minds, model the
physics; the same applies to the virtual inhabitants. If your
virtual world design relies on people as components, it may be
ahead of its time but it nevertheless crosses a boundary that
stops it from being a virtual world. Players are necessary;
community managers are acceptable; PC NPCs are a
contradiction in terms.
Designers will determine the numbers and population density
of NPCs depending on the roles they need them to fill. This
raises a question: As a general rule, should it be possible for PCs
to do anything that NPCs can? With some minor qualification
for the virtual world’s fiction, the answer should be yes; it
ensures flexibility in design. That in most virtual worlds it isn’t
true shows just how inflexible designs are. The question also can
be turned around: As a general rule, should it be possible for
NPCs to do anything that PCs can? Again, the answer must be
yes. Why yes? Players will usually have no trouble telling other
players’ characters from NPCs, but that doesn’t mean NPCs also
52 Never underestimate the whine factor!
392 Chapter 4
should be able to: If one NPC offers a quest, there’s no
theoretical reason why some other NPC shouldn’t be able to
undertake it. This can only add depth and variety to a virtual
world—both good things.
From the foregoing discussion, it should be pretty obvious
where monsters fit in to this equation: They’re simply NPCs
that operate under different AI rules53. What about players,
though? Are they merely NPCs controlled by natural rather
than artificial intelligence?
Would that it were so….
Player Characters
Players are the best things and the worst things about virtual
worlds. They’re contradictions.
Players want an immersive experience. They want a virtual
world that looks and feels like how they expect it should look
and feel. They want to share it with thousands of other people.
They want fully integrated, working systems that support a
rich, eclectic mix of activities in a balanced way. Only when they
have it do they change their minds.
Players’ desires completely overwhelm a virtual world. You
could have a smooth-running, functionally luxuriant virtual
world of 50,000 NPCs that would collapse if 50 players entered
it (think Aztecs and Conquistadors here). There’s a conflict
between what players want and what has to be true for them to
have it.
53 Usually, they also operate under different environmental conditions:
Monsters are subject to an ecology and NPCs are subject to an economy. As
we’ll see later, these (like monsters and NPCs themselves) are really just two
sides of the same coin.
World Design 393
For example, they like a huge playing field. The early textual
worlds often advertised themselves in terms of the number of
rooms they had, the bigger being implicitly the better54
.
However, when it comes to moving around in such a virtual
world, suddenly distance becomes an inconvenience. Players
want to be able to get where they want to go quickly. Why
should the first half an hour of a session involve moving
through uninteresting territory to where the action is? They
want teleportation, portals, high-tech transporters—anything,
so long as it bypasses the points between start and destination.
So they want a big world, then they want to shrink it.
A common outcome of players’ insistence on such luxuries is
that only player characters get to use them. Mobiles don’t.
There may be a public-transport teleport gate in the middle of
town, convenient for all amenities, but NPCs saunter right past.
Those NPCs who want to go anywhere have to walk. The same
applies to many other situations: player characters might get
better after they’ve been killed, but monsters certainly don’t—
they’re well and truly gone55
.
This special treatment for players is not in itself necessarily bad.
It only becomes bad when it subverts systems, such as the
ecology or (especially) the economy. Here’s an example of what I
mean.
54 Sadly, some still do this, even to the extent of using the same, tired old
techniques of yore (for example, co-ordinate systems) to inflate their
numbers and disappoint their newbies.
55 There may be unkillable NPCs. Some of these vaguely make sense in
context (for example, guards) but others don’t. A clan of 100 players can wipe
out a clutch of red dragons but find itself powerless against the might of a
shopkeeper who doesn’t want to lose his stock.
394 Chapter 4
In medieval times, wine was a drink for the peasants in France
but for the nobility in Scotland. Why? Because grapes grow in
France and they don’t grow in Scotland. French peasants
harvested the grapes and made it into wine. They kept some for
themselves and handed the rest over to the local feudal lord,
who would retain some and sell the excess to merchants. Those
merchants would transport the wine to the coast, put it on a
ship, and dispatch it to (among other places) Scotland. There, it
would be unloaded and sold to another merchant, who would
trade it to the nobility because no one else could afford it. The
cost of transporting the wine from France to Scotland is what
made it so expensive there (well, that and the import duty levied
by the Scottish monarch).
Now assume that the people in Scotland could have materialized
in France, undertaken some transactions, and then
rematerialized back in Scotland. What effect would this have
had on the price of wine in Scotland?
It would have fallen, obviously. Scots could have bought the
wine at source. In fact, they could have done better: They could
have bought the grapes at source and then made their own
wine. If everywhere is local to everywhere else, this is exactly
what happens. Nowadays, transport is much less expensive
(although taxes are just as high), so the price of wine in Scotland
is comparable with that of the local product, whisky. If transport
were free and immediate, the only reason to make wine in
France would be because that’s where the winemakers wanted
to make it.
Now imagine you’re back in medieval times and you have access
to a teleporter. You can buy wine in France and instantly sell it
in Scotland at a far lower price than regular merchants can
while making a far greater profit. At a stroke, you have
completely wrecked the economy as it stood.
World Design 395
This leaves designers with a problem. NPCs have to use the
same economy that players do. With instantaneous travel,
there’s no such thing as a local market: Prices for goods are the
same everywhere. Therefore, the virtual economy should at
least simulate the ability of NPCs to use teleporters. Yet,
defiantly, players don’t want this. They want tin to be cheap
near tin mines and expensive elsewhere, just like in the real
world. They want silk to come from China, wood to come from
Scandinavia, spices to come from India, gold to come from
Central America: That’s what they learned at school and that’s
how it should be. If diamonds the size of tennis balls can only be
mined on the planet Eebagum, then they should cost less in the
gem markets of Eebagum than back on Earth. It stands to
reason. Thus, when a player teleports from Eebagum to Earth
with a sack full of diamonds and sells the lot, the price shouldn’t
drop. Then, a month or so later, they can wonder why their
immense wealth won’t buy them anything from other players.
The subject of player perversion of virtual economies is a big
one. However, it’s something designers really need to know
about, so let’s make a start.
Economics
Economics is a huge subject of immense importance. In the real
world, it touches on absolutely everything that people do. Daily
it occupies some of the finest minds on the planet, and yet still
the mechanisms by which it functions aren’t completely
understood. Even top economists can’t agree on everything.
Is it any wonder that it scares the willies out of virtual world
designers?
As part of their trade, the designers of virtual worlds must
accumulate a wide range of knowledge covering many specialist
subjects; some of these they’d perhaps rather avoid, but none of
396 Chapter 4
them are truly avoidable. Economics is one such specialist
subject. Unless it’s your own specialist subject, you’re in bother.
My advice in such circumstances is to visit your local university.
Head for the bookstore and buy whatever book entry-level
students are buying. This applies whether you want to know
about economics, psychology, artificial intelligence, sociology,
anthropology, astronomy, whatever56. Read the book you buy. If
half of it or more makes sense, you probably have enough of a
grounding to be able to apply your newly acquired knowledge to
virtual world design. Complex though they may be, virtual
worlds are nowhere near as complex as the real one; you may
only have the gist of the subject, but when you’re working with
something that’s only the gist of reality, well, that’s usually
sufficient.
If you don’t understand even half of the book, hire a specialist.
No sense in burning out your brain.
So, what, fundamentally, is economics about?
It’s about resource allocation. Resources are anything that
people need or want for any purpose—land, food, labor, sports
cars…. When resources are scarce (as they usually are), they
can’t be allocated to satisfy every need or want, therefore some
system of resource allocation must pertain. This system is the
economy.
Some economies are more efficient than others. In a barter
economy, I might raise chickens and buy the things I need using
eggs. Other egg farmers could do the same. If two of us wanted
to buy the miller’s last sack of grain, the one of us who was
56 To anyone who bought this book with the aim of studying virtual worlds
from the perspective of some other discipline: Hi!
World Design 397
prepared to offer the most eggs would probably get it. If we both
wanted the same Stradivarius violin, however, it would be more
problematical: We might not have enough eggs, the seller might
not have a use for that many eggs, and we could be up against
someone else who wanted to pay in shoes. It’s likely that none of
us will get the Stradivarius, even though we all want to buy it
and the owner wants to sell it.
Most societies use currency to make transactions more efficient.
I can convert my eggs into coins. I can save these up to buy a
Stradivarius57, and the person from whom I buy it can use the
coins to buy other things. Currency facilitates transactions.
The example with the eggs, although it uses a barter system,
follows the principles of a free market economy. Prices fluctuate
depending on supply and demand. If the miller had many sacks
of grain, I could have got a sack at a lower price; if I had many
spare eggs, I could have afforded to pay more eggs for a sack.
For virtual worlds, a free market is not the only option available.
There are basically four types of economy you can have:
• None
• Fixed prices
• Free market
• Faddish
Having no economy is fine for worlds with very low persistence.
It isn’t that there’s no economy at all, of course, just that there’s
no formal economy. If you can’t save objects across sessions, for
example, there’s very little reason to buy things; informal
bartering is enough. It’s possible that there could be a service
market (“I’ll train up your strength if you give me 400 units of
57 Sadly, I’m only talking hypothetically here.
398 Chapter 4
currency, which I can save up to spend on improving my fishing
skills”) but even this is amenable to simple barter.
Heavy role-playing-style textual worlds often have no formal
economy (although some older custom codebases58 omitted it,
too). In these, it’s common for people to give things away that
they don’t need, thereby encouraging a communitystrengthening favor reciprocation system. The more persistent
a virtual world is, though, the greater the need for a formal
economy; otherwise, players wanting to exchange goods and
services get very frustrated if their favors are not returned.
The fixed-price approach also works in low-persistence virtual
worlds. If you can’t take your cash with you when you quit,
fixed-priced objects retain their worth. If you can take some
money, but only up to some moderate amount, that also can
work. If you can keep arbitrarily large amounts of money, fixed
pricing eventually equates to “free.” I’ll explain why shortly.
Prices in a free market change to reflect how much people are
willing to pay and how much people are willing to be paid for
particular goods or services. This is the approach used by most
virtual worlds. It ought to work—it does in the real world— but
there are a few problems that virtual worlds have which the real
one doesn’t. Again, I’ll come to these shortly (after I’m done
summarizing economy types).
The final common type of economy is whatever fad idea
enthuses the designers enough that they decide to use it.
Although the designers will thus be 100% committed to it,
prospective players will generally be 100% the opposite. It may
58 Although the idea of putting money into MUD1 was suggested many times
by its players, I always resisted because I didn’t feel it could have coped with
inflation. Given that its economy would only have been small and therefore
very susceptible to player exploits, on the whole I’m rather glad I did.
World Design 399
well work in practice as well as in theory, but the chances are it
will do neither.
Most virtual worlds aim for a free market economy. There has
yet to be a successful large-scale implementation of this,
however. There are two reasons for this: Designers don’t make
the economy as free as they think they’re making it; players beat
it to a bloody pulp.
Let’s see how these situations develop.
Wealth enters the system: The main sources of this are monster
drops, quest rewards, farming/mining, and newbies’ grubstakes.
Characters accumulate wealth. By their efforts, they may create
more wealth by adding value to items or by performing services.
Wealth leaves the system: In a closed economy, what leaves goes
into some simulation (for example, of the activity of unseen
NPCs) to return in some form later. In an open system, what
exits the system has no effect on what enters.
What happens when, because of players’ industry, wealth
appears at a faster rate than it disappears?
In a closed system, the rate at which recycled wealth enters falls
to compensate. There are fewer monsters and quests, or the
rewards for success are lower. Players find they are receiving
less money, so are more inclined to keep what they have ready
for when they really need it; this means that the amount of
wealth leaving the system falls again, leading to a fall in the
amount entering. It’s a vicious circle, which guides the economy
to a grinding halt. All it takes is for more people to hang onto
their wealth than the designers had allowed for, and it’s
guaranteed to happen. Given that organized griefers will figure
this out and deliberately save money just to watch the whole
400 Chapter 4
edifice tumble, closed economies can always expect to dry up
eventually59
.
Most virtual world economies are open. If more wealth comes in
than goes out, then players accumulate wealth and can buy
more things; if less wealth comes in than goes out, they go
broke and can buy fewer things. This doesn’t matter in a truly
free market economy, because prices can rise or fall to match
income—even inflationary income. If today the average wealth
of a character is 500 UOC and a new helmet costs 10 UOC, then
in six months when the average wealth of a character is 5,000
UOC the price of a new helmet will be 100 UOC (if supply and
demand remain constant). Thus, although absolute prices may
change, relative prices only change when supply or demand
changes.
In a fixed-price economy, this doesn’t happen. A 10 UOC helmet
costs 10 UOC whether people have nothing in the bank or
millions. It’s normally the latter; this means that after a while
helmets are basically free—great news if you want a helmet, but
terrible news if you’re a player whose character manufactures
helmets. In any system with fixed pricing, inflation hurts
everyone who crafts goods for which fixed prices pertain. It
doesn’t matter if you can raise or lower your own prices: If NPC
vendors buy and sell at fixed prices, you’re screwed.
The obvious solution to this is to have variable prices—that is, a
fully free market. The problem is that unless all prices are
variable, this doesn’t work. One consequence of this is that
quest rewards and mobile drops should be variable, too. Who’d
59 This assumes that players can keep their money in complete safety. If they
can’t, they will be less likely to hoard it (because it could be stolen). If they
can, but that place of safety is a bank, that helps too because money can be
loaned from it and thereby re-enter the system. Needless to say, this is not
what tends to happen in virtual worlds.
World Design 401
want to risk life and limb for 20,000 UOC if it wasn’t enough to
buy an arrow? Yet how do designers make these price rises
occur rationally in such a way that unscrupulous players60 can’t
screw over the system?
Actually, it’s surprisingly doable. The trick is to give goods
rather than cash as rewards. Goods get their value from the free
market; therefore their value varies in keeping with supply and
demand. If you get a wolf pelt for killing a wolf, then the sum
total of the wealth of the virtual world increased to the tune of
one wolf pelt. The amount you can sell this for depends on the
demand for wolf pelts at the time. If demand is low, you get a
smaller return than if demand is high, therefore you go off and
kill something else instead of wolves. This will lead to a drop in
the supply of wolf pelts until there’s a shortage of them,
whereupon prices will rise and you might think about killing
wolves again. It all works very neatly.
Unfortunately, there are some consequences of the free market
economy that require players and designers to accept some asyet unpalatable truths.
Designers first. A free market economy operates using what
Adam Smith famously called an “invisible hand”61. Individuals
work to promote their own self-interests, but in so doing
promote the interests of society as a whole (generally
unintentionally). Farmers sell us food because it’s in their
interest to do so, not because we’d die if they didn’t. If all players
60 Some designers might suggest that the term “unscrupulous players” is a
tautology. Even though this is perhaps unfair, it can certainly help to look on
them that way occasionally.
61 Adam Smith, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations.
London, W. Strahan and T. Cadell, 1776. Full text available at
http://www.adamsmith.org.uk/smith/won-intro.htm.
402 Chapter 4
act in their own best self-interest, the free market economy will
flourish.
Unfortunately, in virtual worlds players’ best self-interest may
be to make your economy collapse—and that’s not even the
worst of it.
In the real economy, you have to participate because there’s
nowhere else to go. Everyone can’t be rich; some people have to
be poor. In virtual worlds, you do have somewhere else to go. If
you’re poor, you can emigrate to some other world where you
can be rich. In the real world, if no one buys the helmets of
which you are so proud, you have to make something else
instead; in the virtual world, you quit and go where helmetmaking is valued. Helmets, potions, laser rifles—it applies to all
crafted items.
Also, the free market model says that if a bunch of players want
and can afford quality swords and there’s no one making them,
the demand will prompt someone to get into the quality sword
business. Unfortunately, that reasoning only applies within the
context of the virtual world. The demand also can be satisfied by
frustrated fighters decamping to some other virtual world
where there is no sword shortage. No matter how much a
designer might want it, his virtual world’s economy can never
be truly closed because players are a part of it and players can
come and go. The free market does work here—supply, demand,
and prices do achieve equilibrium—but it works in a way that
hurts your real-world profits.
It may be that a free market has unpleasant consequences on
the virtual world itself, too. Take the example of bakery wars: A
big guild with deep pockets sets up a bakery in a town that
already has a bakery. The established shop has a loyal customer
base, a long-standing reputation, and it makes tasty bread. The
World Design 403
guild shop starts to give away free bread. People go to the guild
for their free bread.
What does the local bakery do? It can give away bread for free
too, but it still has to pay for the raw materials and it therefore
takes a loss on every loaf (so does the guild, of course, but the
guild is rich and can afford the loss). The bakery can continue to
charge a fair price for its bread, but people won’t buy it because
they can get something fairly similar for nothing from the guild.
Eventually, the original shop is going to have to face facts and
shut down. The guild will then hike the price of its own bread
sky high so that it not only covers its losses but it becomes even
richer. Do you, as a designer, allow such monopolistic
bullying62? It’ll cost you at least the local baker and perhaps
some of the people who used to buy their bread there. If you
thought about it in advance you can devise ways to stop this
sort of thing from happening, but what about the ways for
players to turn over your economy that you haven’t thought of?
What checks and balances do you have in place to defend
against unforeseen attacks?
Another example: pelt hoarding. Suppose a guild seals off the
forest where the snow wolves live. No one goes in or out of the
forest unless the guild guards get out of the way. If there’s a
constant demand for snow wolf pelts (they’re used for making
frost storm spells or something), then the price of snow wolf
pelts will rise. Ordinarily, it may be that the forest spawns 20
snow wolves a day and the pelts fetch 50 UOC each. Now, it’s
still spawning 20 a day but if the guild only kills two of them,
then each pelt may fetch 1000 UOC. That means they double
their profits. This is how cartels operate: By restricting supply,
demand is artificially inflated and prices are kept artificially
62 It may be comforting or otherwise to know that real-life governments have
to wrestle with these exact same issues, too.
404 Chapter 4
high. Do you have your world react to this, for example by
spawning snow wolves in more places? If not, the players who
need the pelts will wail about how your crock of an economy
allows this kind of abuse to occur. But if so, the cartel will flood
the market with snow wolf pelts until your spawning stops,
then repeat—all the while complaining bitterly about your
interference.
This brings us to the second group of people who have problems
with a free market economy: the players.
Players will produce spreadsheets covering your economy. They
will then gouge it. They will expect to gouge it, regard it as
perfectly natural behavior, and be outraged if you make any
attempt stop them. Everyone else, on the other hand, they
regard as having no right to exploit the economy in any way
remotely detrimental to their own well-being. This is true in the
real world, of course, but you can’t quit the real world; you can
quit virtual worlds.
In a free market economy, the activities that people undertake
will sometimes be rewarded poorly. This acts as an incentive for
those people to do other things that are better rewarded
instead. Unfortunately, for a player of your virtual world, “better
rewarded” might mean playing some other virtual world rather
than yours.
Suppose you, as a player, like making clothes. It’s a big creative
thing with you—you enjoy seeing characters walking around
wearing your designs. Your entire aim when selecting a virtual
world is to have your character be a tailor. So, you sign up to a
world that lets you be a tailor, and start to churn out jackets and
skirts and coats with which you’re immensely pleased. What
happens if there are so many other tailors around that nobody
wants to buy your clothes, no matter how much you advertise
them?
World Design 405
In the real world, you would lose money to the extent that
eventually you’d have to face facts and stop making clothes. In
the virtual world, you would scream and scream and scream
until the world was “fixed” so that there were always NPCs
willing to buy your garments. If it wasn’t “fixed,” you’d
eventually leave in disgust at its betrayal. Again, the virtual
world’s free market economy is working, but the real world’s
free market economy is also working; of course, the real world
always wins.
Players want an honest day’s pay for an honest day’s work. If
you don’t reward them, they feel cheated. If you set up yourself
as a snow wolf hunter and make 50 UOC per pelt profit, you’re
happy. If other people find that killing snow wolves is profitable,
they’ll join in. With the resulting increase in supply, you’ll find
you can’t sell your snow wolf pelts unless you drop the price.
Now you’re making only 40 UOC per pelt63. What do you do?
Either you accept the realities of the free market or you dash off
an email to the community service team screeching, “Your
STOOPID game NERFED snow wolves!!!”64
.
Players like it when the free market works in their favor; they
don’t like it if it doesn’t. This may be a problem that, in time, the
maturity of players cures. Then again, if enough precedents for
pandering to players are set then it may never get the chance to
be tested. Players will complain—and get a hearing—if they do
things that are blatantly stupid.
Player: “You killed my chickens!”
63 Or, if things get as bad as they did in Ultima Online, one UOC.
64 To nerf means to adjust the tangible effects of a virtual world element
downward. Although nowadays it can apply to everything from skills to
classes to races to spells, it’s traditionally used for objects. It comes from the
Nerf brand of safe-play toys. A Nerf gun does less damage than a real one.
406 Chapter 4
Community manager: “You built your chicken farm in a forest
full of wolves. Didn’t you expect maybe they’d eat your
chickens?”
Player: “Are you hearing me? YOU KILLED MY CHICKENS!”
Telling players that the miserable time they’re having is all their
own fault will not endear you to them. If they spend four hours
hunting wolves when the price of wolf pelts is rock bottom, they
don’t like being told to hunt something else instead. If they’re
told that hunting itself is an over-subscribed activity (having
designed their character to be a hunter), they will be absolutely
livid. Players will spend a lot of time being miserable if the
reward is high enough. They’ll mindlessly click on the same
“mining” icon for three hours, hating every moment of it65, if the
result is that they find the diamond they need to give them an
arrow of dragon-slaying. It’s when they make themselves
miserable for no reward that the problems come. They want an
honest day’s pay for an honest day’s work; they’ve done the
honest day’s work, so now they want the honest day’s pay. It’s
immaterial to them that what they’ve done is as useful as
counting buttons.
It’s because players are frequently unwilling to accept this
consequence of a free market economy that virtual worlds will
guarantee prices for crafted objects. This assures a market, so
players stop complaining, but then there’s no incentive for them
to change to making something people really want. Besides,
players have other requirements, too: Someone who makes
clothes that no one buys may be temporarily pacified by being
able to sell them to NPCs, but unless NPCs actually wear those
clothes they’re still going to feel unfulfilled. Even then, NPCs
65 It’s easy for designers to mistake what people do for what people enjoy
doing. The chances are if players tell you they don’t like doing something,
they’re not lying—no matter what the data mining results say.
World Design 407
aren’t PCs. Surely, PCs would buy your clothes if only their
existing clothes wore out quicker? So it’s complain-to-live-team
time yet again.
Note that designers don’t have to guarantee fixed prices, just
decent prices. It’s perfectly within the power of the live team to
change prices manually or to force a change by (again,
manually) altering supply and demand—creating and
destroying virtual goods is free for them, after all. In the real
world, the social costs involved in doing this are too high for it
to be successful; as economist Edward Castronova has pointed
out66, however, these costs are absent from virtual worlds and
therefore price-fixing could be considered a viable strategy in
such an environment. However, as I’ve just illustrated, there
would remain other undesirable effects to do with concepts of
fulfillment and self-worth. So although live teams could indeed
attempt to control prices, they’d have to know exactly what they
were doing to succeed (and be ready for the inevitable
accusations of bias and favoritism that would follow).
Fixed prices aren’t in keeping with a free market, and neither is
fixed income. If all newbies get a grubstake of so many UOC, the
purchasing power of that grubstake depends on prices. It’s
better to give them a range of kit, but even that can lead to
perceived unfairness if the exchange value of what today’s
newbie gets is more (or less) than it was two months ago. It’s
more palatable than giving inflation-adjusted grubstakes,
though.
Similarly, if monsters drop a (relatively) fixed amount of coin
when they die, what it will buy depends on current prices.
Again, it’s better if you make them drop some resource that can
66 Edward Castronova, On Virtual Economies. CESifo Working Paper 752,
2002.
408 Chapter 4
be traded instead of raw money, even if the money is inflationadjusted—players will moan if “last week I only got 600 UOC
but this week my friend got 650 UOC, so you owe me 50 UOC.”
You can still get a form of inflation with this, though: A mobile
dropping a +1 sword is dropping nothing if everyone already has
a +1 (or greater) sword.
Fixed prices and incomes are bad for an economy, as eventually
either everyone can afford everything (inflationary world) or no
one can afford anything (deflationary world). Fascinatingly, this
same argument can be used to justify assigning constant
experience point values to mobiles: The more experience points
you have, the less the value of an “easy” mobile is to you.
Therefore you have to go for the tougher mobiles that give
higher returns (leaving the easier mobiles for relative newbies).
A consequence of this “level inflation” is that eventually no
mobiles are worth enough. Without sufficient sinks (that is,
ways to lose experience points), new content must be added
somehow, either by the live team or designed-in as an elder
game.
Of early virtual world economies on a massive scale, Ultima
Online’s was the best. It almost worked. The economy and
ecology were interlinked and interdependent. It began as a
closed system, but it soon became apparent that the sum total of
the world’s wealth wasn’t large enough to go around. It
switched to a faucet/drain economy, which held up for a long
time despite having some fixed prices (for crafters) and periods
of inflation due to bugs. What finally broke it was the lack of
sinks: People didn’t have enough to spend their money on, so it
simply accumulated.
Following on from UO’s complex economy, there was a
backlash. EverQuest and Asheron’s Call both had much simpler
economies. Both of these suffered from inflation, although in
EQ’s case the vast numbers of newbies entering the world
World Design 409
managed to soak up the excess to some extent and eventually
the economy became relatively stable. AC rapidly achieved
hyperinflation (it wasn’t helped by some money-duping67 bugs
that effectively gave players their own mints) and its economy
never really recovered. Unsurprisingly, most of the EQ–inspired
graphical worlds went for the EQ approach rather than the UO
one, although Star Wars Galaxies sees the pendulum swinging
back to a system that doesn’t require a newbie hose to sustain it
(ironically, because SWG does have a newbie hose).
The interesting thing to note about formal economies is that
when they do break, an informal economy will normally emerge
to replace them. AC’s informal economy, based around gem
shards (needed to make kick-ass armor), certain keys (giving
access to spell scrolls and other kick-ass armor), and writs
(required to lease a house), became highly robust and stable; the
formal economy was only used for interactions with NPCs. It’s
to the designers of AC’s credit that although the economy they
originally put together fell apart, their virtual world was
sufficiently deep that the informal economy that replaced it
became something of an exemplar.
Interference in Economies
How much should you interfere with how an economy “should”
work to facilitate its smooth operation?
Let’s start with something relatively mundane. Players don’t
like being ripped off; if they want to trade, should there be a
secure trading system whereby goods can be exchanged with no
danger that anyone will take the money and run? It’s not very
67 Duping is short for duplicating. It means creating copies of objects (or
whatever), normally as a result of programming errors. Virtual worlds
implemented using a template system for object creation are particularly
prone to it, and stackable objects (such as coins) are their weakest point.
410 Chapter 4
immersive, but players are accustomed to the idea and will
accept it without thinking (in the same way that they accept
slow scene dissolves in movies as a signal for the passage of
time). The easier it is to trade, the more likely players are to
engage in trade.
Trading, though, is tangible: Coins and objects are things the
virtual world can track. Services are intangible: If I want to pay
you to guard something, how can the virtual world track
whether or not you did it? Similarly, although it’s possible to
contrive a trade screen whereby I cast a heal spell if you give me
money, it’s not so easy to do it for more complex arrangements
(such as casting heals on you “whenever you need them,” in
exchange for “a share of an expedition’s profits”).
There will always be unsecure trading, because designers can’t
hope to model everything that players may want to trade. Given
that they can’t model everything, the question that then arises
is whether they should model anything at all?
The answer must be yes, because it’s the only way for low-AI
NPCs to trade. Given that it’s therefore there already, allowing it
for instant inter-player trade isn’t really going to hurt any. For
transactions that take time, though, it’s trickier. If I pay an NPC
to train me to use a crossbow, I know that the NPC is not going
to disappear with my cash; with a PC, I don’t know that. This
can be shoehorned into a transaction system, but the more
complex transactions become, the harder it gets. There comes a
point where to continue would be ridiculous, even if it’s short of
what NPCs can do. Automated transactions are okay if they
don’t stretch convention too far, but beyond that they hurt
immersion.
If a smooth-running economy were the only aim here, this
model could be further extended. For example, players could be
allowed to trade with one another without being in physical
World Design 411
proximity. Goods could be teleported immediately from point of
sale to point of purchase, with the two not necessarily
coinciding. This would greatly facilitate the exchange of goods,
leading to greater satisfaction for all. In a Science Fiction virtual
world, it may even make sense within the fiction.
Whether it would be any fun is another matter, though. One of
the things about an imperfect economy is that it takes time for
production and demand to fall into step. During that time,
profits can be made. If response is immediate, this smoothes out
the creases that make commerce interesting.
In some virtual worlds, the mobiles you fight are tuned to your
combat abilities. In other words, no matter what you attack, it
will adapt to be commensurate with your abilities to defeat it.
The design thinking is that you’ll have a more exciting time if
you’re pushed close to defeat but still manage to win. It’s flawed,
though, because nearly-losing-but-then-winning is only exciting
if there exists the possibility that you could actually lose.
Because mobiles are bent to fit your abilities, there’s actually no
real danger of this. Combat is ultimately dispiriting.
A similar thing applies to over-smoothed economies. If as soon
as players think of something clever to do, checks and balances
come into play that dampen the effect, in time people are going
to wonder what the point of it all is. There has to be enough
opportunity to make a success of something before the
bandwagon arrives, otherwise it’s just not worth trying.
Interference in the low-level workings of an economy can thus
be counterproductive: The easier you make it for people to trade
goods and services, the less interesting it becomes. On the other
hand, if you don’t interfere then the economy might not work at
all. You have to achieve a balance.
There are other ways to interfere that could help.
412 Chapter 4
National governments use interest rates to control their
economies. Low interest rates cause people to spend; high
interest rates cause people to save. If you have a virtual world
where players are spending or saving too much, it shouldn’t be
too hard to create a mechanism that corrects the problem (for
example, by making NPCs change their prices, or by taxing PC
bank accounts).
Regrettably, this isn’t as straightforward as it sounds. The
problem is not the implementation, but players’ perception of it.
Unlike with a secure transactions system (which is a
transparent process), they don’t see the workings of the
economy’s carburetor, just the effects. It’s very difficult for them
to trust what’s going on. Even if you completely automate the
checking and balancing, there’ll still be a deep suspicion that
actually it’s the live team that makes all the decisions, with
some “nerf knob” they can turn to make prices rise or fall.
It’s an issue of trust. If you must have a nerf knob, you might
want to give control of it to a committee of players rather than
automate it. They may screw up, but at least they’ll get the
blame, not you!
Tips for a Successful Virtual Economy
I’ll wrap up this discussion of the economies of virtual worlds
with a few tips to help you design one that works. Rather than
merely repeat what I’ve already said (“Don’t use fixed prices, you
idiot!”), I’ll concentrate on ideas that might not be immediately
obvious. Not all of them apply to all virtual world economies, but
hopefully they’ll spark a few ideas.
Have Stuff Wear Out
The normal problem in virtual worlds is inflation. The effects of
this are alleviated somewhat if players have many ways to be
World Design 413
separated from their cash. The easiest way to do this is to have
stuff wear out so that replacements have to be bought. This
hands money to NPC vendors or (if goods are bought from PCs)
to NPC miners/farmers. If PCs do all the mining and farming
too, it’s still of some use because it encourages trade; it’s best as
a money sink, though. It helps keep scarce items scarce.
Players see it as a money sink, of course, which makes them
suspicious. It’s basically a tax on action. However, as long as you
make it “realistic” you can get away with it: Shields used in
combat really do receive a battering, but you’d be hard-pressed
to justify why a ring wore out.
Charge for Services
Players don’t like it when you take money from them, but they
don’t mind so much if they think they’re spending it. They are
quite happy to pay for things that reduce the amount of work
they have to do.
For example, consider teleportation. When a player wants to go
from A to B, the cost of teleporting compared to the time cost of
walking should really be an issue. Players ought to have to think
about whether they need a service enough to pay through the
nose for it. Naturally, they’ll complain that teleporting is “too
expensive,” and they could well be right. With a pricing
structure that rises and falls depending on how many people
use a teleporter, though, a balance should be achieved.
In considering services that can be charged for, anything that
satisfies these three criteria is suitable:
• Player characters can do it.
• NPCs or the virtual world itself can do it for them.
• Players don’t like doing it.
414 Chapter 4
Have Multiple Currencies
In the real world, there are many currencies. If a price is quoted
in one currency and you want to pay in some other, you have to
sell some of the latter currency to get some of the former. I can’t
give a taxi driver in Paris dollars and I can’t give a taxi driver in
New York euros68
.
Exchange rates between currencies fluctuate. In theory, this
happens because of trade: If a country manufactures goods that
lots of other countries want, those countries will have to acquire
the currency of the first country in order to pay for the goods,
which will lead to a rise in the exchange rate in the first
country’s favor. If a country needs more capital to invest in its
industry and infrastructure, it can raise interest rates, thereby
attracting investors who want a guaranteed return; this will
also lead to an increase in the exchange rate.
A virtual world can have multiple currencies, and exchange
rates between them. This can act as a form of trade tax (because
converting currencies will almost inevitably incur a commission
charge) and it’s also good for limiting the spread of inflation (the
more money of one kind there is in circulation, the less money
of another kind it is worth). The number of currencies doesn’t
have to be high: Gold versus silver coins can work; Simutronics’
game DragonRealms successfully runs three “local” currencies.
In practice, real-world currency markets are dominated by
speculators. In virtual worlds, the fact that you can tax each and
every currency transaction would immediately put a stop to this
(assuming you wanted to).
68 Well I can, but they’re not going to let me out of the cab if I do.
World Design 415
Give Money Weight
This is a great tip for virtual worlds with a pre-Victorian era
setting.
If you have 100,000 gold pieces, that’s a lot of gold. Post-1982
U.S. 1 cent coins (pennies) weigh 2.5g; 100,000 of them would
weigh 250kg, or about 550lbs. Coin quality gold is about 2.5
times denser than electroplated zinc. Moving that kind of mass
is not easy without cheating physics.
When coin has weight, the act of transporting it is non-trivial.
Someone who is rich in one city is not so rich in another. A local
economy can therefore flourish because players can’t easily
transport enough coin there to undermine it. It leads to a more
stable overall economy. Objects genuinely do have different
values in different places, and a career as a merchant suddenly
becomes a possibility. Although giving coin weight gets in the
way of trade, it also makes trade more interesting; it gives it
gameplay elements that it didn’t have before.
Players can carry high-value items such as gems instead of coin,
of course, but gems are like multiple currencies. Rubies are
worth more in places far from ruby mines, and then only if PCs
or NPCs actually have a use for them. You might be able to
convert from coin to gems, but where you’re going you may find
you can’t convert back, or that if you do you get a different
amount of gold69
.
A corollary to this is: No banks, no banknotes. For any world in a
pre-renaissance setting, this is historically accurate; for any
other world set prior to about 1900, it’s inaccurate for the very
wealthy but is fine for the general population (who never saw
69 If you’re lucky, this could be more than you originally paid for the gems, of
course.
416 Chapter 4
banknotes nor visited banks). In Fantasy virtual worlds, banks
are basically there as a convenience for players, acting as money
teleports: You pay cash into one and withdraw it out of another.
They’re effectively ATMs, and as such are somewhat out of
place. It’s hard to imagine Gandalf visiting a bank in Lord of the
Rings; likewise, it’s hard to imagine Elrond paying for a horse
with a banknote.
Multiple Uses
Elves draw magical power from the number of trees that exist
within a certain range. Humans in the nearby town want wood
for housing. This is conflict. Economies can drive conflicts.
Conflicts can also drive economies. Dwarfs need elf skins to
enchant their forges.
Conflict like this is good for gameplay (if not overdone), and
having multiple uses for resources is a neat way to introduce it.
The same technique can be used to enhance trade (by driving up
volumes) and challenge monopolies (because the opposition to
them will be greater).
Similarly, having multiple resources for the same use70 can keep
a virtual economy from being mugged. In practice, goods are
usually implemented as being similar but not exactly equivalent,
so a snow wolf pelt might have a slightly higher warmth factor
than a snow bear pelt, but get mangy quicker. Nevertheless, if
there were a sudden shortage of snow wolf pelts, people who
made clothes out of them71 could switch to bear pelts. When
people have choices like this, meaningful decisions must be
made; meaningful decisions are at the heart of gameplay.
70 These are known as substitute goods.
71 See Chapter 8 for a general discussion of doing things with your character
that you might disapprove of in real life—for example, fur coats.
World Design 417
Charge for Advancement
Players are so pleased when their character has gained enough
experience for them to advance a level or skill that they are
quite happy to pay virtual coin to seal it. Whether this is
through “training” (which for some reason only NPCs seem able
to provide) or the acquisition of some expensive item (mithril
cross, ebony staff, engraved armor) is not the point: The point is
to provide a money sink.
Some designers adopt a “charge for everything” view and make
characters pay to enter cities, to cross bridges, to speak to
officials, and so on. This can backfire if people find it too
tiresome or depressing. By charging for things that don’t
happen all the time and that the player is happy about, these
negative effects are greatly reduced. Charging for advancement
is the perfect example of this idea in action.
Personally, I don’t like charging for advancement; it’s a little too
cynical and opportunistic for my tastes. However, with plenty of
players trained to accept it by existing virtual worlds, that’s no
reason for you to overlook it.
Charge for Abstraction
Should player characters have to eat? If they do, should the food
work its way through their digestive system or be beamed out
of them at the last moment as seems to happen in Star Trek? If
nature proceeds like it does in real life, are there consequences
for not washing your hands afterward? Or is this all a level of
detail too far?
Some textual virtual worlds have eating. Every so often,
characters will feel hungry. If they eat, the hunger goes away; if
they don’t, their attributes degrade increasingly until they do.
Some foods are better at restoring attributes than others, but
basically, eating remains a background maintenance task that
adds authenticity but little gameplay.
418 Chapter 4
Players deal with this by using clients that trigger on key
phrases. When the “you are hungry” line arrives, the client
automatically issues commands to remove a food item from the
character’s backpack and eat it. The original message, the
commands to address it and the messages confirming those
commands are all stripped out. The player doesn’t know the
maintenance has taken place, except that the backpack needs
restocking with food occasionally.
If players routinely automate responses, why bother having the
events that trigger the responses at all? They’re just hoops that
players are being made to jump through. It may add realism, but
the use of trigger code to make them transparent shows that it’s
realism players would rather do without.
So players shouldn’t have to eat, then? In that case, what are all
those NPCs doing working on the land? Only NPCs have to eat?
One solution is to make eating improve your character on a
temporary basis. If you don’t eat, your stats stay low. This is
actually pretty much the same as using eating to maintain your
(higher) stats, with failure to eat incurring a penalty. However,
when phrased so it sounds like it’s giving players something for
performing an action (rather than taking something away for
not performing it), it’s more acceptable. This is the Star Wars
Galaxies approach.
Another solution is to abstract such activities out. Characters
eat, perform their ablutions, and so on, only when the player is
offline, in the same way that characters in movies go to the
bathroom only when the camera is not on them (or when they’re
about to be murdered). This allows players to get on with the
serious business of having fun, without having to concern
themselves with minutiae yet while remaining within the
virtual world’s fiction.
World Design 419
If this abstraction is performed, the player can pay for it. In
general, players are against their characters’ being taxed, but
they can be persuaded to put up with something equivalent if it
fits the fiction; a support fee to cover the incidentals that they
run up while the player is offline is one such pseudo-tax.
Incentives to increase payments—for example, by granting
characters more status if they do—will often work. Characters
without the means to pay could either suffer attribute/skill
penalties or be allowed to subsist by explicit foraging,
depending on the fiction of the virtual world.
The abstraction must be strictly adhered to, though: If
characters eat while the player is logged in (perhaps when
visiting a restaurant or taking part in a banquet), then their
support fee for that period must drop accordingly. Characters
who do buy their own food should ideally get a better deal than
ones who rely on the abstraction, but this may be hard to
organize in a free market economy.
This technique of charging for abstractions can be used for
similar tiresome activities such as reloading ammunition and
recharging batteries. In general, any unnecessary detail72 can be
removed this way and its cost bundled into a support fee.
Non-Player Players
I did mention when I began this section that although the main
virtual worlds were populated by characters, NPCs, and
monsters, there was a fourth possibility: nonplayer players.
These are the customer service representatives, techies,
designers, and other members of the live team who need access
to the virtual world but don’t want to play it as regular players.
They generally need supra-world powers in order to help
72 In MUD1, clothes were an unnecessary detail.
420 Chapter 4
people, to test the world, to fix problems, and so on. How should
the game fiction account for this?
The simplest answer is “it shouldn’t.” If you can’t ever hope to
slip it unnoticed into the fiction why bother? Put non-player
players in a uniform so that everyone else knows to expect odd
goings-on when they’re around, and leave it at that.
The second-simplest answer is also “it shouldn’t.” Hands-on
event co-ordinators, as I mentioned earlier, can merge in to the
player base and appear to be regular players while actually
having irregular powers at their disposal. This is fine for them,
but it doesn’t work for programmers trying to track down bugs
or for customer service representatives showing the human
face of the live team.
The more traditional approach, at least in Fantasy worlds, is to
have a formal hierarchy of gods/immortals/wizzes. In other
words, find some in-context powerful beings and associate the
non-player players with these. This may be unavoidable anyway
in some virtual worlds—for example—it’s hard to conceive that
an Ancient Greece world would work without any gods. Your
main problem here is likely to be that the non-player players
believe the labels and start acting like deities instead of
programmers or whatever. A superior character doesn’t imply a
superior human being.
There is also a danger that through their actions (or players’
beliefs of their actions), non-player players may inadvertently
extend a virtual world’s fiction. If Thor shows up just as a
character gets a lucky hit and kills a giant, that character may
think Thor is responsible. Before you know it, web sites will be
proclaiming that praying to Thor will help in battle, and unless
this misconception is nipped in the bud it could become so
widespread a belief that complaints from confused newbies
World Design 421
occupy more community management time than the
programmer time it would take to implement the idea.
Physics
The foundations of a virtual world are its geography and its
population; they’re like a board and its pieces. Whenever
designers begin work on a new virtual world, among the first
things they consider are the geography and the
ecology/economy.
With MUD1, Roy Trubshaw began with the physics.
Designers today inherit so much from what has gone before
that often they don’t give thought to why things are the way
they are. If they don’t give thought, they don’t have
understanding; if they don’t have understanding, they can’t
innovate. There are so many features of a virtual world that rely
on its physics—geography and population included—that it’s
staggering how much is taken for granted.
Physics concerns the fundamental systems of change; it’s the
machinery of a virtual world. It’s no accident that it was the first
statement in the definition of virtual worlds I gave in Chapter 1.
It implicitly defines all a virtual world’s tangible possibilities; if
the physics doesn’t allow it, you can’t have it.
Designers really should know everything about the physics of
their virtual world. They should know what conventions have
been adopted, they should know why they were adopted, and
they should know their implications. Armed with this, they
should consider ways and means to improve on them for the
benefit of their virtual world and its players. If you do go with
422 Chapter 4
the flow, it ought only to be because the flow is going where you
want to go.
Laws of Nature
The physics of virtual worlds is based on real-world physics.
There is a reason for this.
If I push on a door, the door opens. If I push on a virtual door,
the virtual door opens. I could just as easily make it that if I push
on a virtual door, virtual birds fly out of a virtual mug. Unless
the door was flagged as No Ordinary Door and the mug was
flagged as No Ordinary Mug, this would confuse people. Why?
Because human beings learn from an early age the cause-andeffect rules that govern the way reality works. In a virtual world,
they are unable to stop themselves from applying these same
rules except by an act of will. For virtual worlds therefore,
anything that interferes with these rules acts as an out-ofcontext interrupt; anything that adheres to them implicitly
supports the illusion that the virtual is real.
The real world operates under the laws of physics. The rules
that people develop in their heads to model the laws of physics73
are simpler, but they’re good enough for almost all practical
purposes. Virtual worlds wishing to be convincing to players
must therefore implement at least these rules (and,
paradoxically, perhaps no more; it’s players we’re trying to
convince here, not reality).
73 These rules are called naïve physics, and are an example of qualitative
reasoning. Patrick J. Hayes, The Naïve Physics Manifesto. Donald Michie (ed.),
Expert Systems in the Micro-Electronic Age. Edinburgh, Edinburgh University
Press, 1978. Johan de Kleer, Qualitative and Quantitative Reasoning in Classical
Mechanics. Patrick H. Winston and Richard H. Brown (eds.), Artificial
Intelligence: an MIT Perspective. Cambridge MA, MIT Press, 1978.
World Design 423
Fundamentally, therefore, virtual world physics is concerned
with implementing the obvious.
The key is transparency. Transparency means that players don’t
have to suspend any disbelief, because their senses pass the
information right by without comment. The more successful a
designer is at creating transparency, the less his or her work
will be noticed: This is great for immersion, if not so great for
the designer’s ego.
The expectations that players have of a virtual world’s physics
don’t have to map directly onto reality, if the context is right.
The most conspicuous example is that of a genre boasting its
own physics: cartoons. In cartoons, when you run off a cliff you
don’t fall until you realize you ran off a cliff. The laws of nature
do apply, just not in the same way74. As long as people buy into
the fiction, this can work. Toontown can be as immersive as
EverQuest.
The central issue for virtual physics is the level of detail at
which it operates.
If I let go of an object, it will fall. That’s gravity in action. When
it hits the ground, will it bounce? Will it become damaged,
perhaps break? Maybe the ground will break? What if the
ground is at an angle? Will the object roll down it? That depends
on the object’s shape, its mass, what it’s made of, what the
ground is made of, and so on. If there’s a wind, what effect will
that have?
74 See Cartoon Laws of Physics, which exists in several versions.
http://funnies.paco.to/cartoon.html and
http://www.bbc.co.uk/dna/h2g2/alabaster/A645095.
424 Chapter 4
If there’s an object between the one I drop and the ground, what
then? Will it trap the object; will it let it pass through; will the
object bounce off or out? I could drop apples into a wicker
basket, but how many would fit before it becomes full? Even if it
were full, I could still add sand to it, if not apples. Then I could
add water, which would be retained for a short while, but would
eventually trickle out. Maybe if I’d added cement dust as well as
sand it would have set instead.
That’s just the start of it. The physics of a virtual world must
address all kinds of issues that the real world implements
trivially. How long does a feather dropped out of a window take
to land? Why does my compass point north? What happens
when I shine my flashlight at a mirror? How long does ice last?
Who will get wet if I throw a bucket of water at a crowd? Can I
dismantle a bookcase and use the pieces to make a raft? What if
I set fire to a wooden house?
The real world can answer all these questions because that’s
how it works. It has molecules and atoms and atomic particles
and quarks and who knows what else, all working together
under the influence of at least four forces75. Virtual worlds can’t
hope to compete with real physics. Unfortunately, as the above
examples illustrate, virtual worlds can’t cope with naïve physics
yet, either.
That said, the virtual worlds of today have access to greater
computational resources than those of yesterday, and it’s not
unreasonable to suppose they could have better physics as a
result. At a time when modeling tools are available to perform
real-time ray-tracing, fluid mechanics, fabric deformation, and
surface friction effects, it’s a little sad that virtual worlds rarely
75 Gravity, electromagnetic, strong nuclear, weak nuclear. There may be
others yet to be discovered.
World Design 425
bother to implement concepts even as simple as “if you drop
this in water it will sink.”
There are practical limits to what can be done. As detail
increases, the number of active components increases and the
number of interactions between them goes up exponentially76
.
Throwing more computers at the problem will not even dent it.
That said, if MUD2 can let you drop an object down a well into
an underground stream which carries it off until it reaches a
grate that may or may not trap it, all the while accounting for
object density, impact damage, water damage, and the
possibility of hitting or being caught by someone, then there’s
no reason a large-scale graphical virtual world couldn’t do
better. The trick is not to implement all of physics, or even all of
a naïve physics, but to implement just enough naïve physics to
satisfy players’ sense of detail.
That’s still harder than it sounds.
Virtual worlds operate at the level of commands. Players decide
what they want to do in terms of effectively indivisible
operations, and these make up the command set. They want to
wear a pair of boots, they don’t want (for each boot) to loosen
the laces, pull it on, tighten the laces, and then tie them in a
double knot. Simple goals that in real life most people could
achieve without really thinking should be implemented in
virtual worlds as such. Believe it or not, for MUD1 Roy and I
actually discussed these things before deciding exactly where to
pitch actions. That’s why we went for “unlock door” rather than
“put key in door; turn key; remove key from door.” It’s also why
we made “lock” and “door” be synonymous nouns.
76 As does the number of potential exploits.
426 Chapter 4
To implement physics, you only really need to go one conceptual
level beyond that of the deepest command. Anything deeper
than that, the players won’t see anyway. If a character can shoot
an arrow, the virtual world engine should be able to show its
flight and make its arrival be non-instantaneous; however, this
doesn’t have to be done by applying Newton’s Laws to parabolic
trajectories—it just has to look like it was done that way.
There is an argument that a deeper physics model can be used if
it’s less complex than a shallower model or if several complex
shallower models can be built from it77. For example, if you have
a good Newtonian simulator already built to implement your
virtual tennis games, you may as well reuse it for arrows. This is
reasonable, assuming you really did need the simulator for the
tennis. In practice, it’s programmers rather than designers who
are more susceptible to going too deep: You may have specified
that characters’ breath should be visible in cold air, but it’s not
you who’s spending 10 days implementing a brilliant new eddycalculation routine.
So to summarize:
• Compiled into players’ heads is a sense of how the real
world works.
• If the virtual world mimics this, it helps immersion
tremendously.
• Players need rarely think beyond the level at which they
can “just do” something.
• This is the level at which commands should be written.
77 A virtual world’s physics can itself be regarded as a model for
implementing higher-level effects. Consistency benefits from this: If you can
get the physics to handle some set-piece event, it’s usually better than if you
hard-code it separately.
World Design 427
• The physics usually needs to be constructed only at the
next level beyond this.
• The problems come from the fact that in many cases the
physics is not written even close to this next level, if
indeed they’re written at all.
This being the case, designers have only limited ways to
respond. In worst-first order, these are
• Brazen it out. The virtual world has ponds; players can walk
on the surfaces of the ponds; big deal.
• Knee-jerk reaction. Players can’t walk into ponds, for no incontext reason.
• Remove the symptoms. Players can’t walk into ponds because
the vicious fish that live there keep them out. This provides
an in-context reason, but it’s invariably feeble.
• Paper over the cracks. There are no ponds in this virtual
world.
• Implement the physics. Characters who walk into the pond
can stand there with water coming up over their knees and
wetting their clothes as expected.
Players’ commands imply the virtual world’s physics. In
deciding the level of physics to implement, designers should
therefore look at commands.
The Big Six
Surprisingly, there are only six categories of commands for
virtual worlds, only half of which are in-context. Implement
these and you have the makings of a basic virtual world. The big
six are
• Exit the virtual world (“quit”).
• Get playing instructions (“help”).
428 Chapter 4
• Make a note (“bug”)78
.
• Communication (“tell,” “say,” “shout,” “pose,” and so on).
• Create/destroy object (“chop wood”).
• State change (movement, “get,” “drop,” everything else).
Of these, the last one is the most important from the point of
view of the virtual world’s physics.
Tangible objects in virtual worlds have properties, which in turn
have values. Properties can take many forms: “Mass” might be
an integer; “label” might be a string; “location” might be a set of
co-ordinates; “contents” might be a list of objects; “components”
might be a treelike data structure. Some of these values may be
independent; others may be recomputed each use because they
depend on many factors (for example resistance to magic).
State-change commands alter properties. A simple “get,” for
example, entails changing the location of an object from the
floor to the character; movement involves changing the
character’s location property from one point to another; “open
door” means changing the door’s “opened” property to true.
It’s more complicated than this in practice, of course. There are
all manner of preconditions that need to be satisfied (objects can
be too heavy to pick up, or tied down, or on fire, or being stood
on, or plenty of other irritating things); there is feedback to be
generated (you see the door open, as do people on the other side
of it); the properties themselves can take different forms
(location as co-ordinates or as a contains/contained-by
hierarchy). From the designer’s point of view, though, the actual
mechanics aren’t particularly important; of more interest is
what can be done with them. This is because everything
78 You could lump this under communication if you wanted, but I consider it
to be more fundamental than that.
World Design 429
tangible except object creation/destruction can be done with
them.
This means that the properties you choose set the level of player
commands, which in turn set the level of the physics. If the
properties are fine-grained (as they might be if you kept a
record of how many roses were growing in a bush, say), then the
commands that change these properties must also be finegrained—therefore, the physics that underlies the commands
must be slightly finer-grained yet (because it’s what gives the
properties their meanings). It makes no difference whether
people use the commands frequently or infrequently; once you
have that level of detail, you have to support it.
Similarly, by going the other way and having coarse-grained
properties, you get coarse-grained commands. If flowers are
properties of a garden rather than objects in their own right,
characters can’t ever do so much with them (which means less
detailed work for your physics).
As for what level of detail to go with, that depends on both the
virtual world and the real one. It depends on the virtual world
because some contexts need finer-grained properties that
others can do without. A murder mystery detective game, for
example, would need many detailed properties for each object,
because meticulousness is a feature of detection; a space opera
game would be able to gloss over most such properties because
it concerns the grander scale. However, in all cases real physics
is absolute. Players will have certain expectations, which they
will proceed to act on. If you encourage them to look deeply,
they may look deeper than you can manage; if you encourage
them to look only superficially, it may be too superficial to
satisfy their natural curiosity.
All that designers can really do here is to put themselves in the
position of the player. Imagine what the completed virtual
430 Chapter 4
world would look like, then consider what players would want
to do in it. Create objects to this level, set properties for objects
at this level, and specify commands that operate at this level.
From that, you’ll get your physics level.
I’ll discuss properties of objects in more detail shortly79. For the
moment, though, we’ll keep with the basic underlying physical
system and ask the question: What happens when you want to
model something that’s impossible in the real world?
Beyond Real-World Physics
Reality can cope with more detail than virtual worlds ever can
because it has more resources. However, there are two cases
where the scope of virtual world physics extends beyond what
reality can offer.
The first of these is that the virtual world interacts physically
with a meta-world (reality), whereas reality does not80. Players
in the real world can become personae in the virtual world,
therefore a virtual world can influence the real one through its
players (and vice versa). The commands that best illustrate this
are those concerned with communication. There are four types:
• Within the world, within the fiction. Commands based on
real-world physics are implemented within the context
79 To save you from getting your hopes up, I’ll warn you now that I’m not
going to present a list of common object properties. The point of this section,
after all, is to persuade designers to think about virtual world physics from
first principles for themselves.
80 Anything reality interacts with physically is by definition part of reality.
Theologians and philosophers may argue that there are worlds beyond
reality that can coincide with it, but that’s not quite the same relationship
that virtual worlds have with the real one: We can prove that virtual worlds
are part of reality.
World Design 431
of the virtual world. Examples: “shout,” “say,” “whisper,”
“pose”/“act”/“emote.”
• Within the world, without the fiction. Commands in the
virtual world have functionality beyond what’s possible
in the real. Examples: “tell,” “mail,” group channels.
• Without the world, within the fiction. Material that
concerns what goes on in the virtual world is created in
the real and presented in-context. Examples:
newspapers, criers.
• Without the world, without the fiction. Material that
concerns events in the virtual world is presented apart
from it. Examples: IRC, email, rant sites.
The second example of where virtual physics can go beyond real
physics is in the area of ultraphysics. This concerns things that
people are prepared to accept as extensions to mundane
physics, whether or not they’re actually compatible with it.
Examples include faster-than-light travel, psychic powers,
cybertechnology, prayer, time travel, and (everyone’s favorite)
magic. None of these phenomena can be demonstrated today
with any reliability, and for some it’s unlikely they ever could be.
However, sufficient numbers of players have an understanding
of the tropes that it’s possible to accommodate these ideas into
virtual worlds. It’s sometimes necessary to produce a fiction to
indicate which of several sub-tropes a virtual world is adopting
(does this magic work using mana, spell memory, gesture
programming, and so on), the decision having been made for
gameplay reasons. As long as it’s something that fits into the
players’ naïve ultraphysics, though, it’s acceptable to them.
Any ultraphysics needs to be implemented with the same rigor
as regular physics. Players will not flinch while telling you that
vortex-breathing dragons are unrealistic, whereas firebreathing ones aren’t. In the same way that your virtual physics
must adhere to players’ naïve physics, your virtual ultraphysics
must adhere to players’ naïve ultraphysics. Ultraphysics is not
432 Chapter 4
as supportive of immersion as real physics, but jarred
ultraphysics is every much as unsupportive of it as jarred real
physics.
The level at which ultraphysics is implemented is determined
by the commands that use it (as spells, through skills, using
artifacts), which in turn depend on the same kind of properties
as real physics. There is great scope for experiment here. Just
because every other virtual world implements magic in terms of
one-off, powerful spells, that doesn’t mean you have to. Why
can’t mages cast spells as often as archers shoot arrows? Why
can’t spells have continuous, streaming effects, so you can direct
your healing stream towards whoever needs it? Why can’t
magic take time to work, so you have to guess who’ll need the
effect when it finally hits? There are many dimensions along
which changes can be made, all of which can be adapted into the
vague notions that players have of the ultraphysics that deliver
it. You cast a spell, a fireball appears; how you cast the spell and
how the fireball appears is for the virtual world to determine—
players don’t care, so long as they get the fireball.
An awkward consequence of ultraphysics is that it doesn’t mesh
well with genres that are based on real physics. Fantasy books
may be able to ignore the consequences that winged horses
have on castle construction, but they don’t have to deal with
airborne cavalry units landing troops behind fortified walls and
wreaking havoc. Player characters may take advantage of the
inexpensive healing and curing facilities of temples, but if NPCs
did then the world would be a very different place.
A final point to mention about ultraphysics is that it allows for
hyperdimensionality. Graphical worlds are less capable of
handling this than textual ones, because they have to present a
view of the virtual world that’s rendered in the real one. Textual
worlds can have objects inside themselves, objects bigger inside
than outside, sounds you can pick up, and so on. Graphical
World Design 433
worlds can have some hyperdimensionalities that textual
worlds traditionally find difficult (such as portable holes), but on
the whole they’re not as flexible.
Objects
The rule with objects in virtual worlds is integrate everything.
When a virtual world is implemented, the entities of which it is
constructed are its objects. The relationships between these
entities are their properties. Together, objects and properties
comprise the tangible part of the virtual world, which the
physics brings to life. It doesn’t have to be this way—you could
in theory devise a system where objects are mere consequences
of interactions between fundamental equations in the same way
that numbers are. If you try that, good luck.
It is essential for designers to recognize that although many
objects in their virtual worlds have wildly different
characteristics from many others, fundamentally they’re the
same. They can be arranged into conceptually useful groups—
player characters, mobiles, containers, rooms, portable objects,
fixed features, and so on—but it’s a big mistake to treat these as
unrelated, partitioned sets. You’ll get much better coherence
(and a much better understanding of your own world) if you
consider them to be specializations of a general abstract object
rather than the roots of their own abstract hierarchy.
For example, suppose you decide that your player characters
should have a “health” attribute. It would be an obvious step to
use this same property to record the health of mobiles. You
might also want to give ordinary objects a “wear” rating to track
how close they are to falling to pieces. It should then occur to
434 Chapter 4
you that “wear” is measuring the same kind of thing as “health,”
therefore you should use “health” rather than “wear.81
”
This may seem rather obvious, but all too often it’s not82. In the
early days, all MUD designers were also programmers, and it
wasn’t until they picked up on object-oriented programming
language ideas that some of them were prepared to accept that
hey, maybe rooms and player characters are just objects after
all? This is somewhat ironic because it turns out that the objects
of virtual worlds don’t correspond well to the objects of an
object-oriented programming language like C++. To explain
why, I’ll have to digress for a while (but I’ll try to keep it short).
In an object-oriented programming language, there is a
hierarchy of object classes. Individual objects are instances of a
class. Thus, you might say that doubloons are a kind of coin,
coins are a kind of treasure, treasure is a kind of portable object,
and portable objects are a kind of (root) object. Although I’ve
used the word “object” here, in programming terms these would
be classes. Doubloon33 might be an instance of the class
“doubloon,” which would make it an object. The power of objectoriented programming lies in its removal of repetitions: I don’t
have to define “get doubloon1,” “get doubloon2,” and so forth, I
only need to define “get doubloon.”
If objects can be instances of more than one class, or classes can
be subclasses of more than one superclass, you have a multipleinheritance system. Otherwise, it’s a single-inheritance system.
For virtual world design, a multiple-inheritance system is highly
convenient. If a room contains a doubloon, a penny, and a Ming
81 Just be sure that people don’t get their wounds healed at a blacksmith’s or
get their swords resharpened by a healer.
82 There are still plenty of virtual worlds that consider dropping an object on
the floor to be a completely different action to putting an object into a
backpack.
World Design 435
vase, then when I issue the command “get coin” I want to pick
up the doubloon and the penny; if I try “get antique” then I want
the doubloon and the vase. The doubloon is both a coin and an
antique, but not all coins are antiques and not all antiques are
coins. It’s a common occurrence: Not all mammals are
carnivores and not all carnivores are mammals; not all pop stars
are men and not all men are pop stars. Is the queen of diamonds
primarily a diamond or primarily a queen?
Unfortunately, programmers are likely to want to use C++ or
some derivative (for example, Java) that only uses single
inheritance{Erratum: C++ does has a form of multiple
inheritance, (somewhat ironically) using the virtual
keyword.}. They’ll see that there are “objects” in the virtual
word, they’ll tie these to the “objects” in their object-oriented
system, and then 95% of the way through coding they’ll hit
difficulties. It’s possible to fake multiple inheritance in a singleinheritance system, just as it’s possible to fake single
inheritance in a flat system. It’s a lot of work and it involves a lot
of repetition; it’s still doable, though.
What isn’t so doable is inheritance of commands. Objectoriented programming involves the association of items of code
(called methods) to object classes. These are not themselves
objects; they don’t exist in an inheritance tree. In other words, I
can’t say that the method “punch” is a subclass of the method
“hit.” If I want 30 different ways to hit something, I have to
implement them separately. If I want the effects to differ
depending on whether the objects I hit are soft or hard, I have to
repeat for each. For large or complex worlds, this can rapidly
get insanely tedious both to implement and to maintain. Objectoriented programming is about removing mindless repetition,
not about enforcing it.
This situation arises because the virtual world “objects” were a
bad choice for the programming language “objects.” Instead,
436 Chapter 4
commands should be the objects. If “hit object” and “hit
soft_object” are defined as (object-oriented) classes, then a
command like “slap cushion” is an instance of a command (in
this case the second one), from which the associated code can be
located and run. It’s essentially a programming issue rather
than a design one, but because of the heritage of virtual worlds
it has made it into the design paradigm. Designers often think
in terms of objects and methods when they should be thinking
of multiple inheritance hierarchies and commands.
Okay, end of digression.
So, object classes in virtual worlds are generally arranged in
some kind of hierarchy. This allows the sharing of properties,
which encourages integration, which in turn delivers coherence.
The days when you had to “ring bell” because “hit” was already
taken by “hit creature” are gone83
.
If asked, most designers would probably subscribe to the idea
that integration is good. Sadly, though, they often don’t give it
much thought. Spells and skills have much in common, for
example—they’re the ability to perform a specialized task to a
particular standard, which has to be learned. Few virtual worlds
consider them at all related, though. Similarly, what player
characters might have as skills or spells, artifacts could have as
effects or enchantments. If I can learn to cast a lightning bolt
spell, then why can’t a magical staff be taught to do it, too? This
approach has been used in single-player role-playing games (for
example, Larian Studios’ Divine Divinity), but it’s uncommon in
virtual worlds.
Although much of this discussion on objects has concerned
textual worlds, it applies equally well to graphical worlds.
83 You noticed the sarcasm there?
World Design 437
Graphical worlds are generally nowhere near as functionally
rich as textual ones, but the gap is closing; sooner or later, the
limits of using single inheritance for virtual object classes will
become an issue. You can get 95% of the way without multiple
inheritance and the ability to quantify over actions, but then
that last 5% becomes important.
Common Problems with Objects
Given that virtual objects are, on the whole, intended to exhibit
behaviors at the physics level that are consistent with reality, it
might be expected that there are common problems that recur
whenever some particular aspect or other of reality is
considered. This is indeed the case: Some facets of reality are
easy to implement and others are downright impossible. Many
of these issues arise because what human beings think of as an
“object” is actually just a conceptual entity. It works for naïve
physics, but naïve physics doesn’t have to implement it.
There are conventions to solve some of these issues, but, as
usual, it’s better if designers understand why a convention is in
place rather than merely accept that it is in place. Who knows,
you might well be able to provide a better solution if you
understand the issues.
Let’s look at them, then.
Solids: Assemblies
Assemblies are objects that are made of other objects. Is an iron
key magnetic? Yes. Is a hatchet? Well, the head is. What about a
pair of jeans? Not really, unless you include the zip and the
rivets (if they’re steel rather than copper).
People think of objects as unitary items most of the time, but
they’re quite happy to consider them as being made up of other
objects should the need arise. In virtual worlds, this poses
438 Chapter 4
something of a problem. If objects are made out of other objects,
those objects must also be made out of other objects, and so on
until you reach a point where you just have to stop. Where does
that point lie? Conversely, if objects aren’t made of other
objects, how do you refer to components of an object? Doors
must have keyholes if they have keys, right?
By convention, virtual worlds do not have assemblies. You can’t
take objects to pieces. If you need to refer to a part of an object,
the part is synonymous with the object as a whole. When I can
look through a keyhole, I’m looking through a door.
The reason that assemblies don’t exist is, quite simply, that the
physics to support the functionality isn’t up to it. Properties are
associated with objects, not with configurations of objects; if
you were to associate properties with configurations of objects,
those configurations would themselves effectively be objects.
For example, suppose in real life I had a wooden ladder. I can
climb up a ladder. I can’t climb up a xylophone. Nevertheless, I
could dismantle my ladder and use the components to make a
xylophone. I can play music on a xylophone, but I can’t on a
ladder. The xylophone assembly uses the same objects as the
ladder assembly, but the two have very distinct properties.
Now it’s possible to hack a solution to this. You could say that
“dismantle ladder” or “dismantle xylophone” destroyed the
original object and created two new objects, “poles” and “nails.”
You could then allow “make ladder from poles and nails” and
“make xylophone from poles and nails.” Unfortunately, unless
you’ve thought of it in advance, the player who tries to “make
fence from poles and nails” is going to be disappointed.
In the real world, objects are only objects because people say
they are. It’s just a semantic ploy to describe certain
manifestations within reality. Indeed, objects don’t even have to
World Design 439
be real: “If I had a sister, her name would be Moira;” “Nobody
followed me.” People routinely refer to objects that don’t exist,
and not only in terms of counterfactuals or uninstantiated
variables. Whatever your view on religions, you have to admit
that Zeus, Jehovah, and Vishnu are mutually incompatible
beings, yet to some people they are (or were, in Zeus’s case) as
real as rocks.
In virtual world terms, all objects are as real as rocks (or at least
as virtual as virtual rocks). They exist because that’s how
players understand their environment. However, whereas
people in the real world can call upon new objects when the
muse takes them, in virtual worlds this can’t happen. Objects
only get the properties they’re given; assemblies can’t be
granted arbitrary emergent properties depending on their
construction. You can’t invent objects, just new uses for existing
objects.
Virtual worlds don’t have assemblies because it only pushes the
problem one degree away. At some stage, you have to stop. If
you’re going to have to stop anyway, why even start? Players
will try to disassemble objects, fail, have their immersion hurt,
then give up trying. If the precedent of assemblies has been
established, they’ll keep on trying because sometimes it works
and sometimes it won’t. Each failure will hit their faith in the
simulation of reality.
However, taking the same line of reasoning that I did earlier
with NPCs (that is, even rudimentary AI is better than none), it
can be argued that any consistent-depth implementation of
assemblies is better than none at all. An axe is made of a shaft
and an axehead; an axehead is made of six pounds of iron; six
pounds of iron is made of two three-pound pieces of iron melted
together, and so on. By defining all objects to be constructed
from other objects and a limited number of recognizable
resource “atoms” (which break down into ever-smaller versions
440 Chapter 4
of themselves), assemblies can be implemented. Although not a
perfect system (every object type needs a “recipe,” so new
objects can’t be constructed unless a recipe for them exists), this
is a definite improvement over no assembly at all: It allows for
additional gameplay, and is even better in terms of the
immersion it delivers.
Nevertheless, players who try to build a glider from sails and
broken barrels are probably wasting their time.
Solids: Collections
Some objects are sets or collections of other objects. You might
have a bunch of flowers, a pack of cards, or a wad of notes. Using
a principle of no-disassembly, these should be unitary items.
They all have problems with this, though.
A bunch of flowers is fine as long as you have no individual
flowers anywhere. Put in a single rose, and suddenly you’re
accepting the concept of unbunched flowers. Players will
therefore want to take flowers out of the bunch.
A pack of cards only exists when no one is playing a game with
it. Because cards are meant to be played with, you can hardly
blame people for wanting to deal out the pack. When that
happens, suddenly there are 52 individual cards (plus jokers)
and no pack. You only get a pack again when someone collects
all the cards.
A wad of notes has critical value. Although you might want to
allow players to pick up pebbles from a beach arbitrarily, you
can’t let them peel notes from a wad in that way or they’ll be
rich in no time. However, if you make each note in the wad an
individual object, how do you refer to the wad? Can you split it
in two and get two wads?
World Design 441
These problems arise because although players will think of
objects at a particular level a lot of the time, for similar objects
(in particular) they like to stack them together and treat them as
an abstract whole. Designers must decide whether to allow nonfunctional assemblies like this, and, if so, how to handle them.
There are two ways, alluded to in the preceding paragraphs. The
first is to enumerate all the objects that make up a collection,
but report them as a collection based on the number held. If you
have three playing cards in your inventory, they’re shown
separately; if you hold seven, they’re shown as a “hand;” if you
hold 52 (plus jokers) they’re shown as a “pack.” Similarly, if you
have a rose and a tulip, you have a rose and a tulip; if you have a
rose, a tulip, and a daffodil, you have a “bunch of flowers.” The
designer lays down the criteria for when individuals become (or
cease to become) a collection.
The second way is to use a generator. There are so many flowers
in the garden or nuts on the tree or locusts in the swarm that
it’s pointless enumerating them. If a player wants one, they can
have one. There is effectively an infinite number. For these
collections, a dispenser function creates a new instance each
time the collection is taken from; when an instance returns (or
collections merge) the incoming items are deleted and the
collection remains as it was84. If a graphical world has a beach
texture-mapped with pebbles, characters can pick them up this
way. The texture map doesn’t change, but the characters get an
object they didn’t have before.
Collections are used as shorthand for quantities of objects. It’s
possible (but not essential) to give them properties beyond what
the individual objects have—for example, giving a set of
84 Note that one false move by the programmers here and you get the duping
bugs that are the bane of so many virtual worlds.
442 Chapter 4
collectible bubble gum cards a greater value than sum of the
values of each individual card. Oh, and yes, every other designer
in the world has thought of making collections of too many
uranium chips invoke an atomic explosion.
Solids: Containers
Objects in virtual worlds can be in various hierarchies. The main
one is the class hierarchy (X is a kind of Y), but other
possibilities include an assembly hierarchy (X is a component of
Y), a spatial hierarchy (X is on top of Y), and a container
hierarchy (X is contained by Y). The latter two are related, as
we’re about to see.
Container hierarchies are useful because they give players
physical means by which to move around groups of objects in a
virtual world. They’re not essential: In the same way that early
computer operating systems didn’t have the equivalent of
subdirectories or folders, so some early virtual worlds (most
notably Shades) didn’t have containers. However, they’re very
useful. In a nodal implementation of a virtual world, the work is
already done anyway: Rooms can contain characters, characters
can carry (that is, “contain”) objects, therefore, it’s not a huge
leap of the imagination to allow objects to contain other objects
too.
Virtual worlds that use a co-ordinate system to handle location
typically have to switch to a nodal system for containership.
Although it’s possible to extend the co-ordinate approach to
allow objects to be carried around in backpacks and pockets and
on belts and so on, in practice it’s too inconvenient for the
players. It’s no fun for the programmers, either, having to lock
arbitrary objects onto the co-ordinate frame of a character so
that wherever the character moves, so do the objects. For this
reason, most graphical virtual worlds maintain a separate
inventory for containership, using a co-ordinate system only for
the top level (which can more easily be displayed graphically).
World Design 443
Graphical worlds don’t have a problem illustrating the spatial
relationship between objects. You can see that the bottle is on
the table, the chair is next to the table, the boots are under the
table, and so on. This is because of the rigid spatial structure
imposed by the co-ordinate system. Nodal systems do not have
this underlying structure: If two objects are inside a room, that
says nothing about the spatial relationship between the two.
Even the connectional relationships between two adjacent
rooms are not implied; they have to be stated explicitly. Some
nodal virtual worlds—for example, those developed by Skotos—
do have a relationship network between objects. However,
without absolute co-ordinates it’s hard to make deductions: If X
is next to Y and Y is next to Z, is X next to Z? Co-ordinate
systems have this problem too, of course, when it comes to
modeling the contents of containers. Fortunately, most players
don’t care to think beyond “X is in the bag”—they’re not really
worried about where in the bag, so long as it doesn’t move
around and they can get at it when they want it.
Containers are usually limited in what they can contain. They’ll
hold only a certain volume (or number) of objects. Sometimes
only objects below certain dimensions will go in (you can’t put a
table spoon inside a beer bottle) and sometimes only objects
above certain dimensions will stay in (you can’t store pencils in
a net bag). The containers may be rigid or soft, opaque or
transparent, closable or always open—the same kind of
properties you get for many other objects. There are some
particular issues that containers have which don’t affect other
objects, however.
Most containers are endocontainers, in that they contain things
inside them. Chests, bags, bowls, baskets—they all enclose what
they contain. There is also, however, a smaller class of
exocontainers; these contain other things outside them. Music
444 Chapter 4
stands, hat racks, and Christmas trees are examples of
exocontainers. Exocontainers “wear” what they hold.
Some virtual worlds treat exocontainers and endocontainers as
totally distinct, on the grounds that holding by enclosure is
fundamentally different to holding by hooking or tying or
anything else. The concepts are indeed disjoint, of course, but
there is enough commonality that it’s generally better to treat
them as the same thing. “Take music from stand” and “take
stand from case” are essentially the same action and can be
implemented using much the same functionality.
The key differences are in two areas.
Firstly, although the contents of an opaque endocontainer can
be concealed from prying eyes, you always see what an
exocontainer is holding. This isn’t too bad for textual worlds,
but graphical worlds need to be able to construct animated
images to match the almost arbitrary clothing permutations
that players will try, which can be very tricky85
.
Secondly, for endocontainers, the containers protect their
contents. If you hit an endocontainer, the amount of damage
suffered by what’s inside may be reduced. For exocontainers,
the reverse applies: The damage suffered by the container may
be reduced because it’s absorbed by what the exocontainer is
holding. This is how armor works.
This brings up the subject of a very special endocontainer: the
player’s own character. In Fantasy worlds in particular, things
the character carries or wears are position-sensitive. You don’t
85 Even in two dimensions it’s tricky. KiSS dolls (Kisekae Set System—digital
dress-up-dolls for your computer) regularly have problems with things like
flouncy shirts that stick out through jackets worn over them.
World Design 445
put helmets on your arms, you don’t put boots on your chest.
Graphical and textual virtual worlds both have problems with
this.
Graphical worlds have adopted a standard from single-player
computer role-playing games, whereby an image of the
character is displayed with the “slots” (usually) indicated, and
players dress it up paper doll style86. Although not exactly
immersive, it’s in keeping with the way that the inventory in
general works. Textual worlds have more to worry about
because players want to refer to body parts. It’s okay to have
“wear socks,” “wear cravat,” and so on, but players want “wear
ring on left index finger.” This implies that bodies should be
treated as assemblies. They’re not assemblies that players will
typically want to dismember in a controlled fashion, and, except
for in Horror genres, people aren’t going to care to reassemble
new bodies from parts, either. Nevertheless, if players want to
reference parts of an assembly then the assembly has to be
constructed or faked up; either way, it’s very tiresome to
implement and clue players in to the fact that assemblies are
possible. First it’s bodies, then suits of armor, then horses, then
carts—before you know it, you’ve gone way further than you
ever wanted and it’s starting to have an impact on response
times. If you do decide to implement bodies, make the decision
then and there whether or not it’s a one-off, and stick to it. You
won’t be swayed, you have a will of iron….
What about books, then? Books contain pages, but those pages
are fixed in a certain order, so they’re basically assemblies. If
someone wants to “read page 24” are you going to let them? Or
are you going to keep your books really short, so they only ever
have one page?
86 This is KiSS dolls again. Check out http://otakuworld.com/kiss/ to learn
more about KiSS. Warning: Kids love these things.
446 Chapter 4
It can be very tempting to turn a container into an assembly. Be
careful.
Turning containers into generators is also tempting, but much
less dangerous. A bag of nuts that always has nuts in it no
matter how many you take out is fine, as long as you don’t let
anyone turn it inside out. A coat rack in a shop can have a fixed
number of coats hanging from it, each of which is created using
a lazy evaluation approach (that is, only when someone tries to
access a coat is one created).
The final thing to mention about containers is the notion of
encumbrance. This is an old (some would say dated) idea from
table-top role-playing games. In general, the weight of objects
that a container87 can contain depends on its strength; the
number it will hold depends on the dimensions of the container
and of the objects concerned (although for exocontainers it also
will involve some measure of viable contact points—that is, the
container’s dexterity). However, objects are often so awkward
that they slow you down much more than others of a similar
weight or shape would. An open umbrella is harder to handle
than a closed one; a helium balloon gets in the way more than a
soccer ball (both of which are easier to keep a hold of if they’re
deflated).
The idea behind encumbrance is to quantify how much
something affects the attributes of its container by virtue of its
own attributes. It’s an imperfect abstraction, but at times it can
be a useful one. Even a virtual world that stored the exact
dimensions of objects would still have to approximate some
computationally expensive calculations—for example,
87 Because they’re exocontainers, this includes characters. It’s object-oriented
programming in action.
World Design 447
knapsack-packing problems (emptying a full knapsack, then
getting all that was in it back inside is non-trivial—it’s like
doing a 3D jigsaw puzzle).
Fluids: Divisibility
Most objects in virtual worlds are solids, and that’s how they’re
implemented. However, when modeling the real world it’s a
little hard to avoid the presence of fluids, especially water88. I
use the term “fluids” rather than “liquids” in order not to
exclude those solids that (in naïve physics) act like liquids, such
as sand, ash, and flour; I also mean it to discount substances like
glass that are formally liquids but on human timescales act
mainly like solids.
The central problem with fluids is that they’re indefinitely
divisible. You can split them apart and combine them
arbitrarily89. If someone has a bottle of water and a glass, they
should be able to fill the glass with water and have the excess
remain in the bottle. This can be faked by giving all fluid-tight
containers a pair of properties to indicate what fluid they have
in them and how much, or it can be implemented “properly” by
creating separate objects for each chunk of fluid that have their
volume as a property tied to them. The latter is generally
preferable because it means that fluids can be referenced and
that they can exist independently of containers (for example, if
you tip them out onto the ground). Tiresome players may create
thousands of fluid objects by decanting from a large container
into a tiny one many times, but so long as you’re aware of this
possibility it shouldn’t be hard to prevent it from causing
problems.
88 Potions and ale are commonplace, too.
89 Assembly “atoms” can be split apart, too, but combining them takes more
effort.
448 Chapter 4
Beyond a certain size, large bodies of fluid can be regarded as
generators. You can take as much saltwater as you want from
the ocean, there’ll always be plenty left. In practice, the amounts
of fluid that can be used as generators can be much smaller; a
beach has an inexhaustible supply of sand, and even ponds and
private swimming pools can be considered effectively always
full. Because virtual worlds aren’t real, it’s even possible to have
small containers generate infinite amounts of a fluid90
.
There are potential difficulties when fluid is tipped out of a
container into the environment. It’s not a problem if there’s
already a fluid on the surface, as a large body of any fluid can
safely be assumed to absorb (or otherwise disperse) any chunk
of fluid added to it. Emptying oil into a (virtual) freshwater lake
just destroys the oil no matter how often a player does it.
When the surface does not already have a fluid on it, that’s
another matter. On a smooth surface the fluid may flow away
downhill, whereas on a rough one it could form pools or
puddles; for a rocky surface or a boardwalk it could disappear
immediately between cracks; for dry earth it could simply be
absorbed. What actually happens depends on the surface and
the fluid. At the very least, it implies that all surface types need
to be classified so that the physics can determine what to do.
The final divisibility issue concerns leaks. Leaks can be regarded
as loss to volume that occurs over time. Although in real life a
fluid that seeps from a leaky container can leave a trail, this is
quite hard to implement in practice. In general, if a bucket has a
hole in it then all means is that the amount of fluid it contains
90 As in the joke where a man gets three wishes from a genie. On his first
wish he asks for a never-ending bottle of beer. The genie obliges, and the
man drinks enough from it to satisfy himself that it works. The genie asks
him what his other wishes are. “I’ll have another two of these please,” he
replies.
World Design 449
will lessen at a constant rate until there’s none left. It doesn’t
mean you can fill the bucket with sand and try to write your
name on a field.
Miscibility
Immiscible fluids pose few problems. If you have a pint jug
containing half a pint of sand, you can top it up with water.
Although in real life you’d be able to get more than half a pint of
water in (because sand is a fluid, but not a liquid), in practice
you’re not going to upset many players if you keep it to exactly
half a pint. The same applies to adding fluids to containers that
already hold solids: You may as well compute volumes assuming
that none of the solid objects float, because even if you account
for partial displacement you’ll never get it sufficiently accurate
to satisfy anyone pedantic enough to check anyway. Immiscible
fluids are implementation-friendly. Miscible fluids are
implementation-unfriendly.
If you have half a pint of alcohol and add half a pint of water to
it, what you get is a pint91 of weaker alcohol. If you added water
to poison, you’d get a larger amount of weaker poison. If you
added poison to alcohol you’d get something that was half toxic
and half intoxicating. Mixing fluids involves mixing properties
of fluids. This wouldn’t be so bad if it weren’t for chemistry92
.
By default, all solids are immiscible with liquids. However, some
solids are affected by fluids in a major way. You might be able to
package sugar in a paper container, but water would rapidly
disintegrate it. The result of the exercise would be water and
sludge, neither of which has the properties that a paper bag has.
With fluids, you can add an acid to an alkali and get salt and
91 Well, 98% of a pint if you want to be finicky about it.
92 Chemistry is part of real-world physics; alchemy is the ultraphysics
equivalent.
450 Chapter 4
water; neither the salt nor the water has any of the corrosive
properties of acids or alkalis. Thus, mixing fluids can involve not
only the creation and destruction of objects, but also the
creation and destruction of properties of objects.
The keener designers among you might at this point be
envisaging a nice chemistry system with a wide range of
properties that fluids can have and a series of rules that govern
how two or more properties combine to create other properties
from the list. This could actually work quite well, and explorers
would certainly thank you for it. Whether it’s worth the effort
involved when you could be doing something else is another
issue, of course, and the fact that the recipes for anything that
can be brewed will be on player web sites within days might
take some of the fun out of it. If you have the time, though, hey,
go for it!
One final point about liquids is that viscosity can be a pain.
Apples and honey are immiscible, but if you dunk an apple in
honey and take it out you’ll end up with a lot of honey stuck to
the apple. Whether or not you want to make the apple a leaky
exocontainer for the honey is up to you, but either way be sure
you cover the inevitable player experiments with it (“How come
honey drips off kittens at the same rate that it drips off apples?
Surely the fur would retain…).
Gases
Virtual worlds rarely implement gases, and when they do it’s
often as consequent properties of a location or some other
object, rather than as objects in their own right.
The reasons for this are to do with the physical properties of
gases (and of gas-borne particles, such as pollen and smoke).
Gases are everywhere, they have miscibility and divisibility
issues even worse than those of liquids, and they’re hard to
contain.
World Design 451
Characters can do simple things like breathe them and smell
them, but anything much more sophisticated entails capturing
the gases, which then renders them inaccessible without the
right apparatus. Some virtual worlds have gases dropped by
certain monsters on death, but the result is rather clunky.
Air (or atmosphere) can conveniently be regarded as a generator
object that’s available to all locations and containers.
Sometimes, though, it’s useful to represent chunks of gases with
unusual properties as separate objects. This allows for gusts of
winds, clouds of dust, explosions, temperature gradients,
swarms of tiny insects, foul stenches, and so on.
On the whole, though, the only gas that virtual worlds really
need to consider is air, and then only for completion. Graphical
worlds don’t need even air93—it’s “what there is when there’s
nothing else there”—but textual worlds should account for it
because players in that context reference objects by name,
rather than by pointing device.
Plasmas
In most virtual worlds, the only significant plasma is fire. Fires
are usually treated as individual objects, but not always entirely
realistically. It’s easy enough to model them to emit virtual heat
and light, but the problem is that in real life fires spread. In
virtual worlds, they don’t. You can set fire to combustible
materials and they’ll burn; they may even ignite nearby objects.
However, they won’t usually spread to the environment.
There are two reasons for this. The defining one is that it’s very
hard to do! Fires are transforming events: If you drop a lit
match in dry grasslands, you transform it into a charred
landscape; trees are replaced by blackened stumps, buildings
93 Fog and distance haze, on the other hand….
452 Chapter 4
are empty shells, and everywhere is bereft of life. Predicting the
collapse of structures when arbitrary parts of them burn away
is very difficult.
The second reason is that even if out-of-control fires could be
modeled, it would be unwise to have them. Half of all real-world
property fires are due to arson, and the temptation to destroy a
virtual world that way would be irresistible. Even players who
weren’t crazed vandals might try it out just the once. “Gee, do
you think I’d get experience points for killing 200 bears if I set
fire to the woods?”
State Changes
When you heat up water, it turns into a gas (steam); when you
freeze it, it turns into a solid (ice). Similarly, gases can condense
and solids can melt. These are state changes. Do you want them
in your virtual world?
A virtual world can be satisfyingly convincing without state
changes. If you don’t have any way to heat up things or cool
them down, explorers might figure out why and get uppity but
most of the population will take it in their stride.
On the other hand, state changes aren’t all that hard to
implement and can impress the players. It can be done quite
easily as a destruction/creation pair: Destroy the steam, create
the water; destroy the lava, create the rock. In real life, state
transitions take energy to effect (it’s how refrigerators work),
but in virtual worlds where people don’t have accurate
thermometers, there’s no need to worry about it.
Properties
Properties are abstractions of objects’ physical characteristics.
In virtual worlds, this regularly extends to non-physical
properties as we shall shortly see, but it’s the physical ones
(mass, density, shape, color, and so on) that dominate.
World Design 453
Properties are often implemented as functions, so that rarely
used ones can be computed on a when-needed basis. However,
although properties don’t change any values when they are
called, functions in general do: Checking the “diameter”
property of a balloon won’t change its diameter94, yet calling the
“inflate” function on the balloon might. In terms of
implementation, though, they can look the same.
Properties have an uneasy relationship with object classes. Does
a dropped bottle shatter because as a bottle it’s a subclass of
“fragile objects”? Or does it shatter because it inherits a highvalue “fragile” property? How much encapsulation do you need?
Perhaps it shatters because it has a “made of” property with
value “glass,” and glass has a high-value “fragile” property?
Creating a taxonomy that allows the physics to be implemented
but doesn’t turn designers into programmers is a tricky area
(made all the worse because many designers started out as
programmers). Strictly speaking, it isn’t a naïve physics
problem, but an issue of representation.
Unfortunately, there aren’t really any conventions at work here
(yet). You just do what you have to for your physics to work. All I
would recommend is that you allow for properties to be objects
(in the object-oriented sense) too, so you can quantify over
them. If you can get the virtual world engine to answer the
question “give me a list of all the properties of this object and
their associated values,” then that should be flexibility enough.
As an aside, lists of existing properties are very useful to have
around when you’re looking for new ways to discriminate
between objects. “What should this magic shield do apart from
94 Naïve physics doesn’t have an uncertainty principle.
454 Chapter 4
add the usual protection bonus? Hmm, characters have
properties for height, mass, speed, hmm…eye color,
hirsuteness—hey, I could make them hairy if they used the
shield! That could really freak people out. I’ll make it a dwarfen
shield because dwarfs value beards, females included, and….”
In an ideal world, could all functionality of objects be derived
from their properties? Yes—in an ideal world. You could see
that an object has a hard, thin, flat, robust, semi-sharp surface
attached to a long, strong, lightweight but not brittle second
component topped by a horizontal bar, and from that deduce
that the object was suitable for digging a hole in a lawn. Virtual
worlds are non-ideal, because this degree of functionality
deduction would overwhelm it. Being non-ideal worlds, you can
dig a hole with a spade because the “dig” action knows about
spades (and maybe shovels and pickaxes). Beyond that, you can’t
make a spade out of a busted shield and a fence post.
So sorry fans of assemblies: You’re unlikely to get them this way
soon, either.
Ownership
It may seem odd to include a subsection on ownership when
discussing physics, but (as pointed out in Chapter 3) ownership
can be considered a physical quality for virtual worlds. Note
that this is virtual ownership—that is, ownership within the
context of the virtual world; real-world ownership of virtual
objects is all about data and intellectual property (as is much
else about virtual worlds).
There are two ways to implement ownership. The first is to give
all objects an “owned by” property, which can be either empty
(for example, no one owns characters) or point to some
ownership-capable object (for example, a character, a guild). The
second is to make it implicit: You own whatever you carry. The
latter works for virtual worlds with low degrees of persistence.
World Design 455
The former would be preferred for ones with higher persistence,
except that it gets horribly complicated; they therefore extend
the “possession is nine tenths of the law” concept to stuff stored
on player-owned property, but don’t track who owns individual
objects in general.
At this point, you may be wondering why not. Computers are
very good at bookkeeping tasks, and this is just bookkeeping,
right?
Right, but the problem lies with formulating the rules.
Suppose character A owns a bottle of champagne and character
B owns a bottle of orange juice. They both put their bottles on
the ground; they still own them. I pick up the bottles; they still
own them, and I’m a thief. I empty the contents of the bottles
into a bowl and mix them up; who owns what now? I probably
don’t own it, but does character A or character B? Most of it may
be character B’s by volume, but character A’s by value.
This same sort of tracking problem arises for components of
assemblies and collections. If I steal five units of currency from
each of five players, then lose 18 UOC in a bet, who can lay claim
to the 7 UOC that I have left?
The simple “if I hold it, I own it” rule doesn’t work universally,
either. When your character picks up an object, it usually goes
into a container; this will typically be some kind of backpack95
.
However, it could be a hand or a sack or…well, let’s see what it
could be.
Solid objects in virtual worlds will usually fit into one of the
following abstract categories:
95 In most graphical virtual worlds, the invisible kind.
456 Chapter 4
• Things that can be worn (for example, a hat)
• Things that can be carried by an individual (for example,
a book)
• Things that can be carried by several people (for
example, a bench)
• Things that can be moved but not picked up (for example,
a cart)
• Things that can move of their own accord (for example, a
horse)
• Things that are immobile (for example, land)
• Things that can appear to be carried without actually
being carried (for example, coins)
I can wear a hat or carry a book and be certain that it is mine. If I
buy a bench and want to move it, though, how can I be sure it’ll
remain mine? What about a horse or cart? As with land, some
things do need to have their ownership tracked, like it or not.
Even tracking isn’t always the answer, though. If I steal a sword
and sell it for gold, does the new owner have to hand it back to
the original owner? If not, great: I’ll have my mule do the
stealing and my main character do the buying. If so, also great:
I’ll have my mule steal the sword and sell it to someone else,
then give the newly laundered coin to my main character. In
either case, the location of the original sword is known, but the
person who stole it is likely to get away with the theft (at least
as far as the virtual world is concerned—the players may have
other ideas).
Here come the virtual lawyers….
Time
Time is the one dimension that players and characters both
share, and therefore it is completely beholden to reality. This
World Design 457
does not mean that it has to be identical to real time, but it does
mean that it must directly map to it.
Most actions that take place in virtual worlds are pretty well
instant (lag permitting). Because of the way that people often
routinely regard complex series of actions as unitary
commands, there may occasionally be commands that take time
to execute (cooking a meal, for example). Also, naïve physics can
sometimes call for the effects of a command to take place after
the action has been executed (such as the explosion that follows
from lighting a fuse). As we saw with fire, some commands can
have potentially chaotic effects that last potentially indefinitely.
Most commands, though, give an immediate response and do
not propagate except in strictly prescribed ways (typically, by
giving feedback to characters who can detect the effects of the
command).
One consequence of this, which is felt particularly hard in nodal
implementations of virtual worlds, is that travel is much faster
than it “ought” to be. The time it takes to climb a staircase can
be the time it takes to pass through a forest. Speed is measured
in nodes per second, which, as nodes don’t necessarily conform
to a fixed ground scale, makes a mockery of Newton’s laws of
motion. Fortunately, players aren’t spooked by this; as long as
travel between two locations that are conceptually “distant”
takes longer than travel between two that are “near,” they’ll let
it ride. It will be noticed, though.
In graphical virtual worlds, where speed can be measured using
the traditional units of ground covered per second, travel isn’t
so fast or it would look ridiculous. However, this degree of
realism can brutally shrink a world. In the time it takes a
character to jog across a “continent” in EverQuest, a real-world
marathon runner could perhaps traverse Singapore. Think of
the map of Norrath transposed onto the tip of Malaysia and
suddenly it doesn’t seem all that huge.
458 Chapter 4
Virtual worlds may be tied to real time, but they don’t have to
use it. In some (particularly low-persistence ones), it’s always
effectively the same time—the clocks may change, but there’s
no night and day. Others take an accelerated, linear approach:
DikuMUDs usually map 30 minutes of real time to 24 hours in
the game world. A more player-friendly strategy is to do it nonlinearly, so that time at night (when NPCs are asleep) passes
quicker than time during the day (when there’s more content at
large). The number of hours in a virtual day and the number of
virtual days in a virtual week, month, or year may vary, but
usually there’ll be 60 minutes in an hour and 60 seconds in a
minute (if time divisions go that low). Whether or not years
increment depends on the context: If a virtual world set in the
1920s ran at DikuMUD time, the whole decade wouldn’t last 11
real-world weeks. Seasons can have a gameplay use, but years
rarely do (what, you want characters to get older?!). Virtual
worlds with story arcs are a principled exception.
Some virtual worlds add seasonal content related to real-world
time. MUD1 had a supply of festive mobiles and objects for
Christmas, for example, and MUD2 added more for Easter,
Halloween, April Fool’s Day, Bonfire Night (November 5th—it’s a
U.K. thing), and March (there’s a mad hare). Ultima Online
introduced the idea into graphical worlds. Although in theory
(and occasionally in practice) these are immersion-breaking, on
the whole they’re popular with players as they give a sense of
permanence; the very fact that a virtual world has seasonal
content shows that it’s there for the long haul. Some meager
fiction, such as having a “night of the dead” coinciding with realworld October 31st, can provide any necessary cover. It only
works for worlds that don’t have their own internal time,
though. Celebrating Christmas in a world where it’s officially
Spring is going to seem bizarre; similarly, if virtual Christmas
trees appear fully decorated in real July there won’t be many
players in the mood.
World Design 459
There are other issues of concern, to do with the religious
nature of some of these ceremonies; these are discussed in
Chapter 8.
Night and day: What’s the difference? High-permanence virtual
worlds need to take a position on the subject; in any outdoor
setting based on the real world, night and day are hard to
ignore, but in general, one is going to be more fun for the
players than the other. A strict implementation would have
most NPCs asleep at night and a different set of monsters
awake. This provides gameplay differences between the two
that can make life more interesting for the players (but of
course involves the creation of more content—expensive). As
for the more physical differences, well the most obvious one is
that it’s darker at night96. There are two ways to handle this: by
plunging the virtual world into gameplay-changing darkness;
by making the virtual world suggest darkness without actually
being dark (for example, use a blue wash). Full darkness is
probably going to be implemented anyway for expeditions
underground, so there are no real practical incentives not to
make night as dimly lit as in reality. The reason many virtual
worlds go for a cosmetic night that looks more like dusk is
because it’s less unfriendly for newbies that way (it’s either that
or give them a soon-to-be-mislaid lantern). Graphical worlds
also have issues concerning the ability of various video cards to
display images with low light levels—what might easily be
visible to some players could remain totally unseen by others.
The final point to make about time in virtual worlds concerns
traveling through it. All characters do travel through it, of
course, in the same direction and at a rate related to real time.
They could, if content were available, all travel backward in time
96 The second most obvious, that it’s colder, is rarely considered. Night in
virtual worlds is primarily about darkness.
460 Chapter 4
or forward at a faster rate (relative to real time). However, time
travel for an individual character is not possible: One character
can’t go back to yesterday because for the other characters it’s
today97. Sealed time discontinuities are possible—you can put a
character in a mock-up of yesterday and tell them it’s
yesterday—but interaction is limited. If a character “goes back
in time” and shuts a door, this can only have consequences for a
player in “today” under exact, predefined conditions. Time
travel on a global scale— that is, everyone in the virtual world
together—is possible98; on a local scale, though, it’s no more
possible in the virtual world than it is the real one.
Proactive Physics
People who play in a virtual world are bound by that world’s
physics, as implemented in computer code. Whatever tangible
action they undertake in the virtual world, the consequences of
that action are defined by the program. Players must accept this
as part of the world, just as they must accept real-world physics
in the real world. They may object to certain aspects of it, and
they may even be able to persuade the live team to make
changes, but they can’t opt out of particular rules they don’t
like. If they get annoyed by the fact that their magic sword will
eventually wear out, they can either continue under protest or
quit.
Proactive physics uses this aggressively. Let’s say you didn’t
want players to sell virtual objects to each other in the real
97 Actually, some virtual worlds do let individual characters roll back to some
earlier state without affecting anyone else. I’m sure the designers of these
worlds believe they have a perfectly good reason for sanctioning such acts of
desperation.
98 It can be fun, too. If you tell players in advance that there will be a time slip
(save the database, let people play for an hour, then restore the saved version)
they will show up in droves to take advantage of the temporary freedom
from consequences offered.
World Design 461
world. You could give all objects a “sold on eBay” flag that was
set (either manually or automatically) whenever an object was
exchanged in this manner. Objects so flagged would wear out
faster than unsold objects. Players who complain can be told
that objects wear out anyway depending on how they’re used,
and that being sold in a different world (the real one) puts
interdimensional stresses on them that reduce their integrity.
There would still be lawsuits from people who felt this unfair,
and they may be able to make some argument about the intent
(which is essentially the difference between normal and
proactive physics); a consistent fiction is a strong defense,
though.
Personally, I’m against using virtual-world physics to achieve
real-world ends in this way except when it enhances individual
freedom. That said, I’m very much of the opinion that all code
and data belongs exclusively to the developers to do with as
they wish. Virtual worlds are not tools like word processors,
which folk use to create data that they own; virtual worlds are
places that people visit. If you come to my house and use my
paints on my paper to create an artwork, I’m sorry but you don’t
own that artwork and you don’t get to sell it to someone else
unless I say so.
Whatever deals players strike between themselves about rights
of access to virtual entities, they don’t concern virtual
ownership unless the developers say so. If players don’t like
that, they can either quit and play in a virtual world where the
developers cede data ownership to players (and hope that the
real-world laws governing the changing of that virtual data are
cast-iron) or they can set up and run their own virtual world.
The discussion in Chapter 3 about the rights of players and
characters assumes good faith on the part of developers.
Proactive physics can be an extension of this, but designers
must be very careful not to set the wrong precedent. If a player
462 Chapter 4
uses the virtual world’s physics to make life tough for other
players, the exploit can be fixed and the perpetrator banned; if
the live team does it, only revolt or emigration can ensue.
Reset Strategy
Players consume content quicker than it can be produced99. To
prevent a virtual world from becoming “played out,” therefore,
some mechanism for reintroducing content must be installed—
the reset strategy of the virtual world. There are two basic
approaches: sudden and rolling.
In a sudden reset, the region to be reset (usually the entire
virtual world) is closed down and its content reinitialized. This
is a fairly quick procedure, but it can be very inconvenient for
players who enter the virtual world at the wrong time or for
players who are in the middle of doing something when the
reset occurs. The sudden reset strategy is sometimes referred to
as the Groundhog Day approach, because players relive the same
day repeatedly, as in the movie Groundhog Day100
.
In a rolling reset, content is returned piecemeal at a rate
roughly equivalent to that at which it is consumed. There is no
need for the virtual world to be closed down. Rolling resets as a
concept emerged in the second age of virtual worlds, the
original idea being to use a “watched pot never boils” system
whereby content was slipped in where players weren’t looking
(so as to conserve the fiction). This is rarely practiced today,
99 This is not necessarily true of the virtual worlds of the future, in which
content may arise from player actions rather than being introduced by
designers, but it’s true for virtual worlds of the present.
100 Danny Rubin (writer) and Harold Ramis (writer and director), Groundhog
Day. USA, Columbia Pictures, 1993.
World Design 463
however; indeed, in many virtual worlds players rely on being
able to show up at the appointed place and time so they can
have a crack at a monster101. Besides, in a large-scale virtual
world, the high probability that individual griefers would stake
out a reset site just to stop it from resetting rules the idea out.
When rolling-reset content resets, it usually involves only a
simple adjustment such as the introduction of monsters or
objects; in this context, it’s usually referred to as spawning (or
respawning).
Sudden resets allow for much more complex content than
rolling resets. Multi-stage puzzles in particular are notoriously
difficult to reset in isolation. If a dam has burst and flooded a
valley, putting back the water is a problem (more so if people are
sailing on it) and so is restoring everything that was destroyed
(except for what would have been destroyed but someone
moved it first). Sometimes, events have such all-conquering
effects that they impinge on all aspects of a virtual world and
simply cannot be reset unless the whole world is reset. Thus, a
rolling reset strategy is not going to be of any use in this
situation. That said, rolling resets are more accessible—players
can “drop in, drop out” better—and they are able to support102
much higher degrees of persistence.
Sudden resets interfere with playing patterns more than rolling
resets. Players who are present at the start of a reset will often
stay for the whole period as they’ll have been able to kit
themselves up; players who arrive later may decide that the best
content is accounted for and leave; late-comers will consider
sitting around chatting until the reset occurs, whereupon they’ll
101 Although these players consider camping for monster appearances to be
“adventuring,” actually it’s more like “farming.”
102 If the code is robust enough not to crash every few hours; it’s as well that
some sudden-reset virtual worlds do shut down periodically or they’d do it of
their own accord anyway.
464 Chapter 4
start playing in earnest. For rolling resets, session stickiness
doesn’t depend on time of arrival anywhere near as much.
Both sudden and rolling resets are anti-immersion. With a
sudden reset, you get a huge dose of reality, but it doesn’t last
long; with rolling resets, you get smaller reminders of reality,
but they drip, drip, drip the whole time.
Within the context of a sudden or rolling reset there are four
main strategies in use to determine when and what resets:
• Fixed
• Contextual
• Requested
• Geographical
A fixed reset occurs after a set time period has elapsed. This is
popular for virtual worlds using a sudden-reset approach, as it
gives players fair warning of when they’ll be kicked off. It’s also
popular for rolling-reset worlds, because spawn-on-timer is
very easy to implement and achievers103 like it.
A contextual reset is more sophisticated in that it has metrics to
indicate when content is played out; these can then be used to
trigger a reset. In practice, though, even with quite large
differences in player flow a fixed reset is usually quite sufficient
for most situations; virtual worlds using a wholly contextual
reset strategy are therefore uncommon, although the occasional
spawn-on-completion or spawn-on-character-properties isn’t so
unusual.
The requested reset approach passes control of resets over to
players. It’s commonly used in conjunction with other reset
103 Especially ones who have no desire to become further immersed.
World Design 465
strategies, although MUD1 used it basically standalone. In a
sudden-reset environment, resetting is mainly the preserve of
administrators; where regular players are allowed to do it,
there’s a vote first. In rolling-reset worlds it’s less of an issue:
Players wanting to recycle content (especially bespoke content)
for their own characters’ use will often have a quest system at
their disposal for this purpose. Although communication with
NPCs is the preferred method, spawn-on-character-action is by
no means limited to it; there’s good scope for creativity here.
Geographical resets are mini sudden resets. Rather than a
particular piece of content being identified as needing a reset,
all content associated with a location is reset instead. This
allows for slightly more complex content in a rolling-reset
world, but in sudden reset worlds merely delays the inevitable.
The location that is reset can be as small as a point, although it’s
more common to do it by area or region (faking an ecosystem—
that is, spawn-by-world-properties). Smaller geographical resets
are often spawn-on-proximity, a character’s presence close to
an area triggering the content introduction.
466 Chapter 5
Chapter 5
Life in the Virtual
World
Players are real people who enter virtual worlds through the
instrument of their characters. Chapter 3, “Players,” looked at
players and Chapter 4, “World Design,” looked at the world. This
chapter looks at where they meet: characters.
Advancement
Players advance in intangible ways, through the knowledge they
gain and the friends they make. Characters also can develop
intangibly to some degree, in that they exist partially in the
minds of the players who encounter them. However, characters
are primarily a tangible phenomenon: They are defined by code
and data. The virtual world determines what they can and
cannot do and how mobiles react to them. When a character
“improves,” the improvement is measured in terms of tangible
factors rather than intangible ones.
Life in the Virtual World 467
Characters don’t have to advance, of course; for non-game
worlds, the aim is often for players to gain or hone skills,
therefore the success or otherwise of a character is entirely
dependent on what players learn and how they apply this
knowledge. Still, though, it’s often the case that players will
respond better if there is a reward in the form of some tangible
improvement to their character, even if it’s of only metaphorical
significance.
For those that do offer advancement, there are basically two
approaches: single or multiple. In a single advancement system,
one process completely dominates; in a multiple advancement
system, characters can improve along several dimensions. At
first glance, it looks like no contest: Why would you want single
advancement when multiple advancement offers so much
choice?
There are two reasons why. Firstly, single advancement is
focused and unambiguous. Players know what they have to do,
and can therefore set about doing it. In a multiple advancement
system, players might have to make choices before being fully
informed; they may therefore make mistakes. The second
reason is that multiple advancement suggests multiple content,
which is more expensive to produce and harder to balance.
As an example, consider a hypothetical virtual world set in Three
Musketeers1 France. In a multiple advancement system,
characters can acquire “military points,” “romance points,”
“politics points,” and “fame points.” Thus, they can concentrate
on acquiring points of a particular kind to advance their careers.
1 Alexandre Dumas, Les Trois Mousquetaires. Paris, Le Siècle, March–July 1844.
Full text available online (in English) at
ftp://sailor.gutenberg.org/pub/gutenberg/etext98/1musk10.txt.
468 Chapter 5
If more people want to pursue one career than there is content
to support, new content must be added for it (and the content
that already exists for other careers will be relatively
underused). Players who start their characters off collecting
military points only to find that the romance approach suits
them better will feel that their time has been wasted. A single
advancement system, where characters collect “social points”
that are an abstraction of the other four, would allow characters
to switch focus without suffering, and if content of one type was
running low they could overflow into another until the first
recovered.
Multiple advancement wins out when advancement involves
different mechanisms. If military rank depended on campaign
experience and political rank depended on electoral influence,
the two could not be reconciled so easily.
Virtual worlds measure advancement in terms of advantageous
changes to tangible data. In considering advancement, it
therefore makes sense to begin by looking at what can be
advanced.
Attributes
Attributes are the fundamental properties that define a
character. Because they are tangible, they should properly only
rate physical qualities, such as the character’s strength and
manual dexterity. However, under the influence of table-top
role-playing games they often include non-physical concepts,
such as intelligence and wisdom. This just about makes sense to
a hard role-player, who can work with “My character is stupid,”
but it has its limits: “My character is a genius” would for most
players entail pretending to be cleverer than they really are,
which is not quite so simple. For most virtual worlds, though,
these “mental attributes” are merely convenient labels:
Intelligence is used primarily as a fiction to determine how
Life in the Virtual World 469
much magic a character can use, and wisdom serves the same
function for priestly types.
Attributes also are meant to be relatively fixed: If you have a
poor constitution, tough luck, you just have to live with it. Aging
effects could perhaps make a difference (older characters might
gain wisdom, but lose strength), but on the whole attributes
aren’t supposed to change much, thereby preserving basic
differences between characters. There has been increasing
slippage in this over the years, however, with the old notion that
attributes should indicate intrinsic abilities increasingly falling
out of favor. Instead, attributes can be improved on by action or
training, which makes them more like skills (discussed shortly).
There are several reasons for this, having to do with fairness,
motivation, and choice.
The result is that after a while character attributes2 become
fairly homogenized: In the real world, people can be any
combination of good-looking/ugly and strong/weak, but in
virtual worlds they usually have to start off more one than the
other (for balance). They won’t end up being high in both. It may
take considerably more effort to raise an originally low attribute
to a high value than it does to raise an originally high attribute
to it, but that doesn’t present a total barrier. Normally, one stat
is raised relentlessly as far as possible first, with the lower ones
being neglected until it’s their turn; this leads to a world packed
with puny geniuses and muscle-bound simpletons.
The problem with attributes is that they do make sense in real
terms, but this isn’t a sense that many players are willing to
accept. Some people are simply never, ever going to be as strong
or as fast or as tall or as fit or as good-looking as others no
matter what they do, but part of the attraction of virtual worlds
2 They’re often referred to as statistics, or stats, in this context.
470 Chapter 5
is that these physical limitations don’t apply. In design terms,
fixed or ever-rising attributes are also undesirable: If you decide
after some time that you want your character to become a ballet
dancer but you built her like an ox so she could become a boxer,
well, ballet dancing is out of the question.
For this reason, the trend is to treat attributes as little more
than symbols during character creation, so that players have to
think about their characters as they individualize them. This
gives characters direction, but only in the minds of their
creators; in practice, the relative differences between a
character’s attributes are not usually all that important in the
great scheme of things, especially if values are regularly boosted
as a reward for achievement3
.
The idea of attributes as important, player-defining properties
is probably here to stay. However, whether they remain
relatively fixed (as they do for most other objects) or they rise4
over time (as do skills) remains to be seen.
Levels
In the development of virtual worlds, levels came first (as they
also did in table-top gaming). Levels are the classic
advancement system—easy to implement and to manage—and
are based on the concept of goals and rewards. Characters
undertake actions, for which they receive a payment in
experience points; because the notion of experience is general
enough to apply to pretty well any activity, this approach has
wide applicability. When a character’s experience points reach a
certain threshold, the player rises in (ability) level. This will
3 Not that players will consider them unimportant. “If you say the value
doesn’t really matter, you’ve no objection to adding another 3% to it, then,
have you?”
4 Or fall, although this is a somewhat rare proposition.
Life in the Virtual World 471
typically involve things such as attribute boosts, skill boosts,
resistance boosts, greater choices, and higher status (among
NPCs and, often, PCs).
Looking at this analytically, boosting is implemented at times
dictated by a step function. Why not use a more continuous
approach? Instead of levels, raw experience points could be
used. By using a finer grain for things such as attributes and
NPC attitudes, a character who is one experience point below
the threshold for level X wouldn’t have exactly the same stats as
a character exactly on the threshold for level X-1. In pencil-andpaper games, where humans do (or used to do) the bookkeeping,
this is reasonable—keeping separate track of these things is
just too tedious. Computers, though, excel at tedious, so why the
need for levels?
The answer is that levels provide goals. They give players
something to shoot for, so that their actions have more purpose.
They give players a sense that their achievements do have
effects. Levels use a step function because players like to feel
they have taken a step.
The time taken to reach a new goal5 must be appropriate, of
course. If characters advance too quickly, levels effectively
merge into a stream and offer no more bang than experience
points. If levels are too far apart, players become disenchanted
that their efforts rarely seem to get them anywhere. Note that
although the experience points separating two fixed levels are
invariant (at least within character classes), the time taken to
acquire the necessary points will depend on two things—what
the character does, and luck. Thus, characters do not level6 with
monotonous regularity, but with some unpredictability. This
5 That is, the pacing.
6 Yes, the noun gets verbed.
472 Chapter 5
leads to what is known as a variable ratio reinforcement schedule,
which behavioral psychologists have shown to be the most
effective there is for maintaining a high, constant rate of play7—
Las Vegas slot machines are designed this way to keep people
pumping them full of money. The morality of using such an
addictive system for virtual worlds is discussed in Chapter 8,
“Coda: Ethical Considerations.”
Another reason for grouping together several rewards is that
this enhances the overall experience; the bulk adds value.
Damming a stream and then releasing it has more of an impact
than would letting it run freely, whether the stream is of water
or of presents.
The relationship between levels and experience points varies,
depending on the virtual world. However, it’s almost always
exponential rather than linear. MUD1 used a doubling scheme,
whereby the points needed to rise from level X to level X+1
totaled the same as the points needed to get from level zero to
level X
8
. Most modern virtual worlds start off approximating a
doubling regime, but gradually tend toward a more linear scale.
Compare the examples9
from Asheron’s Call shown in Table 5.1.
7
John Hopson, Behavioral Game Design. Gamasutra, April 2001.
http://www.gamasutra.com/ features/20010427/hopson_01.htm.
8 So as not to annoy the mathematically minded reader, level 1 was set at 300
points from level 0 (it was later changed to 400).
9 Use of bizarrely precise numbers is industry standard. I’d have thought that
players would have preferred rounded values, but no one seems to complain
about it so what do I know?
Life in the Virtual World 473
Table 5.1 Asheron’s Call Level System
Level Points PointsLevel/PointsLevel-1
3 2,777 2·769
4 5,697 2·051
5 10,247 1·799
… … …
33 8,803,044 1·143
34 10,024,047 1·139
35 11,376,914 1·135
A slowing curve enables more levels to be packed into the same
range of points, which increases the rate of reinforcement for
players of experienced characters. Even so, some virtual worlds
allow characters to have so many points that they record scores
using a floating-point representation. This kind of level inflation
can get out of hand (in worlds without permanent character
death, anyway), so there’s often a maximum level beyond which
characters cannot proceed. Some virtual worlds allow remorting
at this level, which means a character gets to keep its abilities
but must start back at level zero as a different (sometimes more
powerful) class10. Other approaches are relative levels and
ranking systems (“you are 386th out of 4,034 characters”).
One of the problems with levels (for VWs which make use of
them) is that content has to be available for characters of
whatever experience. If one character needs a million points to
go up a level, they’ll be doing different things to the other
character who only needs a thousand11
. This means that
characters which are of markedly different levels can rarely play
together—the lower character will find high-end content too
10 For a longer description, see Natalia, What is Remort? Imaginary Realities
Vol. 2 (5), May 1999.
11 They certainly ought to be; if they’re not, they’re going to need a lot of
stamina to get anywhere.
474 Chapter 5
difficult and the higher character will find low-end content
insignificant.
Another issue concerns where points come from. Some of the
most intense experiences of players result in low overall
gains—or even losses—of their characters’ points. If some
monster beats you up, but you get healed then go back again
and again until you beat the sucker, your character may be
worse for it but you, as a player, may be better. Likewise,
running around mindlessly collecting easy quest points is going
to make your character improve, but it’ll do nothing but bore
you as a person. Ideally, points should be awarded for things you
find exciting, rather than as some kind of compensation for
being fed up.
I’ve been describing levels here as a single-advancement
abstraction of other progression measures. It’s possible to
formalize this, with level changes being determined using a
formula that accounts for a range of multiple-advancement
schemes. Thus, a player may suspect from experience that
they’re close to going up a level, but don’t know how much they
need to improve their swimming skill or their dart-throwing
skill to do so. This uncertainty makes a variable ratio
reinforcement schedule even more powerful, and the morality of
using it consequently even less clear.
Hybrid schemes are also being developed. Neocron12 for example,
has typed experience points: When your character is awarded
experience points for doing something, the points go to a pool
associated with one of five stats. When the pool fills, you go up a
level in that stat only, and gain skill points that can be spent on
skills related to that stat only. It’s a cross between a level system
and a class system.
12 http://www.neocron.com
Life in the Virtual World 475
Designers are thus increasingly becoming aware that the
benefits of levels can be used in non-traditional areas. In
particular, applying a level system to individual skills can be
very fruitful, assuming some provision is made for achievertype characters to compare themselves against others (and even
that may prove unnecessary). Skill systems are present even in
many single-advancement, experience-based virtual worlds, and
could eventually take over from them as the predominant
measure of a character.
However, skill systems are not without their problems.
Skills
In virtual worlds, skills are tangible representations of the
abilities that characters have (supposedly) learned.
In real life, a skill is a related series of actions that a person has
internalized to the extent that they can apply it “without
thinking;” skills are either innate or learned through practice. In
virtual worlds, the notion of what a skill is remains the same,
but skill acquisition is often only tenuously linked to “practice
makes perfect.” In particular, some virtual worlds allow
characters to improve skills when they go up a level,
irrespective of whether the skills they choose to improve are
ones they’ve actually used.
Why do virtual worlds need to make skills tangible? Actually,
they don’t: Character skills are very useful as a means for
players to individualize their characters, and they provide a
good delivery mechanism for achievement, but they aren’t
strictly necessary. The most important skills (like it or not) are
476 Chapter 5
those of the player, not of the character, and the virtual world
can’t hope to rate these13
.
Skills are interpreted by the virtual world in a number of ways,
depending on the nature of the skill, of any tools required, and of
the virtual world. The main four are
• Binary skills (feats14). Either you can swim or you can’t.
• Discrete skills (skill levels). People can swim to an ability
described by one of a fixed number (greater than two) of
predefined levels.
• Continuous skills. People can swim with widely varying
degrees of ability, from not at all to completely
competent.
• Binary-continuous skills. Either you can’t swim, or you can
swim with widely varying degrees of ability.
The idea behind a binary skill is simple command guarding. If
you have the skill, you get to use the command, and if you don’t,
then you don’t. Discrete skills take this a step further, with
increasing levels opening up new commands (swimming
underwater, swimming in stronger currents).
Continuous skills work slightly different in that everyone has a
shot at performing any command. Sometimes, the effects are
also continuous (the higher your swimming skill, the faster you
can swim), but often it’s used as a form of binary skill based on
the difficulty of the task at hand. For example, if swimming
across a moat is rated at difficulty 30, then someone with a
swimming skill of 30 or more will always succeed; someone
with a swimming skill of 25 will fail some of the time, but not as
13 Well, it can hope to, but it is unlikely to succeed unless there is a change of
attitude among the playing public.
14 The term comes from table-top role-playing games.
Life in the Virtual World 477
often as would someone with a swimming skill of 1015. Binarycontinuous skills work the same way, but with the proviso that
if your skill rating in the area is zero then you can’t even
attempt it (this is in addition to any other applicable
preconditions—for example, armless characters don’t get to
swim no matter how much they practice).
Skills can be active or passive. Passive skills are switched on the
entire time, whereas active ones must be called into play
explicitly. For example, if a character has a “deflect arrows” feat
then that would be passive—the character automatically
attempts to deflect any arrows fired at them. A feat such as
“berserk fury,” on the other hand, might be active: Players have
to decide when to sacrifice defense for offense, it won’t happen
on its own. Most skills are passive, but only come into use as the
result of an active decision: Your swimming skill is effectively
dormant until you enter a body of water, but while there it’ll be
taken into account passively. Because putting active and passive
skills in the same list can be confusing for players, there is a
growing tendency to refer to active skills as powers rather than
skills.
Skill Organizations
The “skill levels” approach is an example of a linear skill
progression. To acquire a specialized skill, you have to learn its
parent (or prerequisite) skill first. Thus, you can’t learn, say,
“diving,” unless you already know “swimming.”
A skill hierarchy takes this idea one step further and allows
several specialized skills to be learned following the acquisition
of a general skill. For example, having learned a “single-handed
15 These numbers are usually modified for circumstances. For example, a
character with a swimming skill of 90 might have an effective skill of only 10
if they were wearing full plate armor.
478 Chapter 5
weapon” skill, a character may then learn “sword,” “axe,” or
“club,” and from there further specialize into particular weapons
(longsword, shortsword, rapier, cutlass, and so on).
A skill network is like a skill hierarchy except that it allows for
skills to have two or more other skills as preconditions. You
can’t learn the skill of “horse archery” unless you already have
“horse riding” and “archery” skills; you can’t learn “espionage”
unless you have at least three from “stealth,” “disguise,” “bluff,”
and “hand-to-hand combat.”
Looking at skills this way, it’s easy to see how attributes came to
be regarded as the same thing. “You can’t be a blacksmith unless
you’re strong” is just like “You can’t be a pearl diver unless you
can swim.” A concept such as “strength” becomes the concept of
“being able to use strength;” although this is ultimately
dependent on a character’s physical prowess, it nevertheless
offers enough leeway to allow for increasing the “attribute” as a
device for character improvement.
Doing this has certain implications for skill systems, though.
Ideally, all skills should be implemented using the same basic
mechanism, so as not to distract the players. If two or more skill
systems run in parallel, they must be disambiguated somehow
(this is why feats get a separate name). When attributes are
handled just like skills, this means that skills and attributes
should “look” the same. In other words, if attributes are on an
integer scale then they should all be on the same scale and it
should be shared by skills.
In practice, this actually works quite well. There are some
awkward intrinsic properties of characters that don’t fit
naturally into the scheme (the number of genders is fixed, for
example) but they can usually be shoehorned in without too
much bother. This isn’t to say that there aren’t better ways to do
it, of course; however, it does mean there isn’t too much
Life in the Virtual World 479
incentive at the moment to do it some other way. As usual, as
long as designers understand why things are the way they are,
they can make informed judgments as to whether to keep them
that way.
It’s worth considering whether skills should be applicable to
objects other than player characters. They can quite obviously
be extended to NPCs and even some monsters, but what about
objects in general? Could not a shield’s ability to deflect arrows
be implemented using the same skill that a character might use
to deflect them? Or more frequently, shouldn’t a fireball wand
simply cast the spell? Skill transference like this is particularly
useful for virtual worlds that use magic, where a wand could be
given the same spell-casting skill as a player or a player given
the same petrifying gaze skills as a basilisk. Could a sword
improve, through use, to become better? Could it be trained
(that is, enchanted) to learn new skills? If object qualities are
implemented using the same system as player character
qualities, at least these are options (albeit not necessarily ones
every designer will want to pursue!).
Skill Sets
The biggest problem with skills lies in deciding which ones your
virtual world should have. How many should there be in total?
Is 100 skills too many? Too few? From whose point of view—
newbies or oldbies?
We should begin by determining what is meant by a “skill.”
Most virtual worlds would admit derivatives of crafting—
making or repairing things in the virtual world—as qualifying
as skills. Some would include weapon skills, and others would
also add spells. The disparity is in part due to the different
mechanisms by which acquisition works: If you get crafting
skills by collecting “skill points” for going up levels but you get
weapons skills by buying “training,” the two are distinct. It
480 Chapter 5
would be confusing to call them both “skills,” so commonly
some other term is used instead (for example, “weapon
specializations”).
Ideally, all forms of skills would use the same mechanism. Why
should the system by which you learn to make a barrel be any
different from the one by which you learn to swing an axe, to
brew a potion, or to let rip a fireball? If they are fundamentally
different even at abstract levels, that’s fair enough; I wouldn’t
necessarily advocate implementing equipment as skills, for
example. However, if they’re the same but are implemented
differently, perhaps the reasons for that different
implementation should be examined.
Spells, for example, are often linked to a character’s level. When
you reach level 43, suddenly you gain the ability to cast
sidewinder fireballs in addition to regular ones. The spells you
could cast at level 42 you can still cast, but with slightly more
efficacy. If this approach is good enough for spells, why not use
it for crafts? When you reach level 43, suddenly you gain the
ability to make mithril horseshoes in addition to regular ones.
Alternatively, if you’re using a “skill points” system for gaining
new craft and/or weapon skills, why not apply it to spells?
Using the same skill system for crafting, weapon use, spells, and
everything else (acrobatics, horse-riding, speaking Elvish)
doesn’t mean they can’t be radically different in effect, of course.
However, it also doesn’t mean that the problems of deciding
what skills to have go away.
Typically, however many different crafting skills, weapon skills,
spells, and general-purpose skills a virtual world offers, a
handful will be so essential that everyone has them, most will be
secondary skills that people have because they had to choose
something and another handful will be utterly useless. In a Wild
Life in the Virtual World 481
West world, for example, only people who actively like building
unusual characters are going to pass on the horse-riding skill.
If a skill is considered by all players to be essential, all
characters should be given it anyway. Characters don’t usually
have a “walk” skill, because it’s a skill everyone can be assumed
to have. As a rule of thumb, if any one skill is adopted by more
than 90% of characters16, they all ought to get it. Similarly, if a
skill is unused it should also be given to everyone (or derived
from attributes)—it costs nothing to do so, and it means the
remaining skills should be of roughly equal value to players. Of
course, it may be that having done all this you find that a new
handful of must-have skills emerges. If this happens, either
repeat the exercise or split the skills into disjoint sub-skills.
It’s not too difficult to hardwire a universal skill once it’s been
identified (assuming you do so before the virtual world leaves
beta test). It’s quite tricky to decide what should be skills in the
first place, though. Should “horse training” be a skill? Is it
different from “dog training,” or are they both examples of
“animal training?” Should there be a skill for tree-climbing, or
are so few people going to want to do this that it’ll be a waste of
time implementing it? Should there be some weighting scheme
so that unpopular skills cost less to learn than popular ones17?
Should some skills be more difficult than others anyway—isn’t
learning a foreign language comparatively harder than learning
to ride a bicycle?
There are, unfortunately, no clear-cut answers. My advice when
deciding what skill set to have is to consider what message it
sends to players. I’ve seen designs for virtual worlds that have a
16 Qualifying characters, that is, as some skills may be restricted because of
character class, attributes, genders or whatever.
17 And, if so, how are you going to break the news to the players when you
find out you got the balance wrong?
482 Chapter 5
weapons skill tree five levels deep, yet which had a single
“mining” skill that worked as well for iron as it did for
diamonds. The message they were sending was, “This virtual
world is all about combat.” Similarly, I’ve seen designs that
covered the minutiae of everyday life, with skills covering
everything from corn-planting to calligraphy to bee-keeping to
savoir-faire18. The message here was, “Nothing is all that
important.”
If you want crafting to be a viable career, the skill tree for
crafting should be deep enough for people to take it seriously. If
you want people to travel a lot, include several skills that make
traveling easier. If you think players will want to play bardic
characters, include bardic skills. If you don’t want to attract
sneaky-thievy characters, don’t have sneaky-thievy skills. Rate
each skill for its attractiveness to various player types; if any
types are over- or under-represented, adjust accordingly. If you
fear spreadsheet abusers, make key skills mutually exclusive
(but be aware that this will create a de facto character class
system).
Although the number of skills of a particular kind available to
characters is one way to send players a message, it’s not alone.
In general, skills should be of roughly the same level of
abstraction as one other. If in one area they are represented in
greater detail than in others, this also can point to an increased
sense of importance. Were the “swordplay” skill to be described
in terms of how much it increases the damage done, critical hit
percentages, weapon recovery time, parrying capability, and
resistance to being disarmed, this would give it more
significance than a “lumberjack” skill defined solely in terms of
how quickly you can fell a tree. Crediting skills with a false
18 This one was ripped straight out of GURPS.
Life in the Virtual World 483
sense of importance this way is a particular example of selective
depth, a trap that often ensnares the designers of virtual worlds.
As with objects, skills don’t have to have a tangible purpose. If
characters need an “interior decoration” skill to change the
wallpaper in their houses, then if they want to change the way
their house looks they can either acquire this skill themselves or
go to someone who has already acquired it. Either way, the
result is a matter of aesthetics: The virtual world doesn’t
necessarily ascribe any meaning to how the inside of your house
looks. Of course, also as with objects, it doesn’t necessarily not
ascribe any meaning to it either. Unless you want to make some
kind of “we have some skills just for the fun of it” point, if you
can find a way to give tangible value to skills, you should do so.
Having your house redecorated to a higher standard could win
you the envy of NPCs, say, or reduce the chances of its being
infested with termites.
Skills that can be used for more than one thing are generally
good to have but difficult to contrive. If you can use an axe in
combat, does that qualify you to use one as a lumberjack? Or is
that a different kind of axe skill? If they’re different, how many
people are going to bother with a lumberjack axe skill? If they’re
the same, characters will become lumberjacks so they can
increase their axe skills while making money. Multipurpose
skills have more justification for existing than do single-purpose
skills, but they also can have annoying consequences.
Caps
Levels and (in most implementations) skills operate on a linear
scale. A character starts at 0 and improves incrementally. A
level 22 necromancer isn’t as powerful as a level 55
necromancer, but would be roughly on a par with a level 22
monk or assassin or whatever and much better than a level 11
484 Chapter 5
necromancer19. So what’s the highest value that a level or skill
can have?
If you have no limit, characters will improve relentlessly, getting
more and more powerful until newbies are little more than
insects by comparison. Once-daunting content will appear
trivial; players will demand more to satisfy their appetites.
For this reason, many virtual worlds have caps—absolute limits
on how high a level or skill can go. For level caps, this stops
characters from getting too far ahead of what the virtual world
can offer as content; however, it can lead to frustration as
there’s nothing to do except wait for other people to catch up in
sufficient numbers that new content will be added. For skill
caps, players will max out their characters in all the important
skills so they still end up ultra-powerful.
The only solution that is truly guaranteed to stop this from
happening is permanent death (PD), but this is often taboo—
especially in commercial virtual worlds. Some designers have
mooted the idea of having PD as the price for cap-busting (if you
want to go off the scale you can do, but your character can then
die permanently), a solution that has been implemented many
times already in non-commercial worlds. The uproar from
paying players who want the skills but don’t want their
characters to die would likely be considerable, however. Players
offered Achilles’ choice between a short life of glory or a long life
of obscurity will want a long life of glory.
19 On the face of it, a level 22 anything should be twice as powerful as a level
11 anything. However, without an absolute measure for “powerful” it’s
impossible to define such a mathematical relationship. For many virtual
worlds, levels become closer in power equivalence as characters advance
through them.
Life in the Virtual World 485
Without PD, either characters are going to become all-powerful
or (achiever) players are going to become frustrated. That really
is the bottom line. It’s possible to relieve these symptoms
without resorting to PD, though. One way is to have an
advancement curve that makes it increasingly difficult to
progress to new levels, but not actually impossible. As long as
the powers at level N are tangibly better than those at level N-1,
players will want to have them. Eventually, though, an effective
cap will emerge beyond which few characters will ever rise.
Taking the caps off might mean someone can increase their
archery skill to 134 instead of being stuck at 100, but they’re
never going to reach 1,000. It’s a bit like world records for
athletics: They’re always falling, but there has to be a limit. No
one is going to run the 100 meters in 7 seconds unless the
authorities change the rules currently disallowing the use of
motor bikes. Steep advancement curves like this can work, but
they really only ever delay the inevitable: Sooner or later,
players decide that the treadmill is simply no longer fun.
An approach pioneered by Ultima Online was to make skills
atrophy. Characters can learn several skills, but the more they
learn then the less attention they give to other skills, which lose
their values. This allows for characters to excel in only a few
skills at once, while retaining some scope for changing what
those skills are. Players can remain powerful, but can use
different skills as ways to express their power. It sounds good,
but unfortunately players don’t like it: If they learn a skill, they
believe that they should always have that skill. They do have a
point: It’s not like an English-speaker who learns French will
forget the French if they then learn Spanish; indeed, a
knowledge of French could help you learn Spanish. It’s true that
if you become unpracticed at something, then it’ll take you a
short while to get back up to speed, but this will be nowhere
near as long as the first time you learned it. Being rusty at
something is different than completely forgetting all about it.
486 Chapter 5
The first-century Greek philosopher Plutarch said, “The mind is
not a vessel to be filled but a fire to be kindled.”20 Atrophy
systems embody the “vessel to be filled” approach: You can only
learn so much; if you’re all learned out, you have to unlearn
something to make room for new stuff. Although UO players
weren’t exactly happy about skill atrophy as a principle, what
really annoyed them was the fact that they couldn’t state which
skill they wanted to atrophy next. Star Wars Galaxies uses
basically the same idea, except that atrophy doesn’t occur
automatically: If you want to recover points from one skill to
spend on a different one, you have to do it explicitly. Skills you
already know cost less to advance in than others, so the
temptation is to specialize rather than take the jack-of-alltrades route.
“Vessel to be filled” approaches cap the totality of skills a
character can have while leaving the distribution of individual
skills relatively free. A more “fire to be kindled” way of doing it
is to cap earlier in the process—that is, limit the amount of time
that players can (or are willing to) spend in a virtual world (but
not so much that they don’t feel it’s worth their investment).
Ultima Online also pioneered this method21, although not until
2000. The idea behind UO’s power hour is that advancement
happens faster during a character’s first hour of play each day,
but drops off thereafter. Interestingly, the advancement rate to
which it falls is the same as it was before power hour was
introduced, but players are reluctant to rack up points in it
because they’re “paid” less for their efforts than in power hour.
Consequently, whereas the average time players spent in UO
before power hour was introduced was three to four hours a
20 Plutarch, Parallel Lives of Famous Greeks and Romans. 75.
21 The fact that it significantly reduced bandwidth demand (and therefore
overhead costs) may have been a contributing factor here. Certainly, the
explanation bandied about that UO did it out of concern for the health of
their players rang rather hollow.
Life in the Virtual World 487
day, afterward it dropped to around one hour a day. The result
was that although characters advanced faster per game hour,
they advanced slower per real hour and therefore took much
longer in real terms to rise than they had done previously.
This approach worked for UO, but it can only be taken so far: If a
character that was played four times as much as another
character could only ever be 110% as good as it, for example, that
would certainly lead to the loss of many long-term players. It
has other disadvantages, too, in particular it discourages players
from adventuring in groups and it isn’t easy to make remotely
realistic within the virtual world’s fiction.
Skill Improvement
How do characters improve their skills? To preserve the notion
of what a skill is, there ought to be some relationship between
what you do and how your skills improve; but what?
If skills are rated using a points system (as most are), the
question becomes one of deciding when to increment a skill by a
point. There are basically two ways to do it:
• Random chance. Each time a skill-enhancement opportunity
arises, there is a small chance of causing a skill point
increment. This chance may increase over time.
• Cumulative chance. Each time a skill-enhancement
opportunity arises, a random number of pebbles is thrown
into a bin. When the bin is full, the skill point is incremented.
The advantage of the random approach is that you can gain a
second skill point shortly after having gained a first, if your luck
is in. The disadvantage is that you may never gain a skill point
while your luck is out, and you will complain loudly about this.
The cumulative chance approach does have some randomness,
so you can’t ever be sure when you’ll gain a skill point (unless
488 Chapter 5
you can see the numbers); however, you can be absolutely
certain that it won’t be immediately after having gained one.
Where skill nets exist, it may be possible to arrange for some
skills to support others. It’s not a precondition of veterinary
science that you know human anatomy; however, if you do
know human anatomy, then you could expect to pick up
veterinary skills a little faster. This can be managed by
increasing the random chance of success or by preloading the
bin with pebbles so that fewer new ones are required to fill it22
.
It’s in deciding what qualifies as a “skill enhancement
opportunity” that things start to get interesting. There are
several ways to do it, none of which are entirely satisfactory.
The traditional method is improve from success. Each task
requiring skill use has a difficulty rating; when a character
attempts the task, his skill rating is compared against the
difficulty rating to see if he succeeds. If he does, it counts as a
skill enhancement opportunity; otherwise, well, he should
maybe try something less difficult next time.
A variant of this is improve from failure. The theory here is that
people learn from their mistakes, not from their successes,
therefore characters should get a skill enhancement
opportunity for coming close to success but not actually
succeeding. If they do succeed, well, they’re happy anyway
because they performed the task; this way, they’re rewarded for
nearly succeeding too. If they try something so hard that they
don’t even come close, well, maybe they should have attempted
something easier. This is my own favorite method, by the way,
22 Warning: Don’t have skills or attributes that affect how quickly characters
learn skills. If you do, players will max them out at the first opportunity.
Regard a learning skill as “essential,” and give it to everyone.
Life in the Virtual World 489
but it’s not for everyone. It can produce inappropriate messages,
too: You don’t really want to know that your character’s shielduse skill has gone up if the blow it only just failed to stop was
fatal.
Many virtual worlds use improve from leveling. Although some
increase in a skill may occur through use, the idea here is that
experience points are a sufficiently good reflection of player
activity that skill acquisition can be linked directly to character
level. When you go up a level, you (may) get skill points to spend
on improving yourself (also known by its fiction name, training).
This approach has three advantages: Players look forward to
going up levels more; it’s much easier to balance for skills that
are used with wildly different frequencies (fighters swing
swords more often than tailors make robes); characters don’t
have to waste their time repeatedly shooting arrows at static
targets, trying to learn from being bored. The disadvantage is
that the skills that players decide to invest their skill points on
may have no bearing on what they did to get the skill points in
the first place—that is, it’s unrealistic. Some games try to limit
you to only spend points on something you did in the last level
(that is, you had to make a piece of clothing at least once to
advance tailoring). Players will find and jump through these
hoops very quickly.
Star Wars Galaxies uses a very novel approach that impressed
designers because of the way it manages to kill several birds
with one stone. The idea is that for craft skill points, the
measure of success is whether anyone wants to buy your goods
or not. Therefore, the more people use the products of your skill,
the more skill points you get. This gives crafters a reason to
produce the items that PCs want rather than the items NPCs
will pay for. It helps stake-holding, it helps community, and it
integrates crafters more fully into the economy. Players are as
excited over the potential use of their skill as over the actual use
of it. Presumably, there could be an improve by failure equivalent,
490 Chapter 5
whereby characters gained skill points by making items nobody
wanted, but this has none of the advantages of the SWG original.
Unfortunately, it does have one very important advantage that
the improve by success version doesn’t: It makes sense. In real
life, people buy a crafter’s goods because the crafter is good at
making them, not the other way round.
There is a final skill advancement mechanism that isn’t used
much at the moment but may become more important in the
future: improvement from purchase23. If the virtual world’s
business model and player base are right for it, characters could
gain skills by simply paying for them. This was first done
implicitly in the early 1990s by Avalon, which allocated skill
improvement points to characters depending on how long their
players stayed logged in (at a time when it charged by the hour).
Achaea is more upfront about it: You pay real money for credits,
which you can then turn into skill improvement points.
When skills can rise inexorably along a linear scale, it’s worth
asking what the values mean. Is a character with a strength of
100 five times stronger than someone with a strength of 20?
Unlike the case with character levels, it could well be possible to
measure this directly—for example, by considering the
maximum weight that the virtual world lets a character carry. If
something approximating a proportional relationship is
established, this raises a number of issues:
• If the principle is established for one skill, should it not
apply to all skills?
• Is it realistic to have skill disparities as large as this?
• Are players agonizing at character-creation over
whether to give their character a strength of 15, 16, 17, or
23 In virtual worlds where this is not official policy, the equivalent is
improvement from bribery.
Life in the Virtual World 491
18 simply wasting their time thinking about what’s
basically just noise?
That mention of player design brings us conveniently to our
next topic.
Character Generation
Player characters do not come from nowhere. They have to be
created. If players themselves do the creation, they will identify
more with their characters right from the beginning. However,
if they don’t know what they are doing, then this could easily
backfire as they make arbitrary decisions that they shortly come
to regret.
Although it’s not part of the virtual world per se, character
generation is the first thing players have to do when they start
to play a virtual world. It’s therefore very important, as the
impression it leaves will shape how players view the virtual
world proper when they enter it.
In MUD1, players were asked for their character’s name and
gender, and that was all. Nowadays, characters will typically
need to have their class, race, skills, and appearance set before
they can set foot in the virtual world—a far more complicated
exercise. Let’s take a look at what’s involved.
Appearance
The first two questions that need to be answered for any virtual
world are still character name and gender, but increasingly
character appearance is becoming important.
492 Chapter 5
In graphical virtual worlds, obviously it’s paramount (although
even there it’s not mandatory—Lineage succeeds despite having
thousands of characters that all look the same). In textual
worlds, a character description is usually optional and can be
added or changed at any time; a non-default description can
often be thought of as a badge of non-newbiehood. Even some
graphical virtual worlds allow players to create textual
vignettes for their characters, to enhance role-playing.
Almost always, a character’s appearance is intangible: The
virtual world itself makes no reference to it, so gameplay effects
are non-existent. Although gender and racial24 characteristics
will affect the image, other attributes won’t: You can be short
and skinny yet still have more strength than someone twice
your size. Unrealistic though this may be, players like to
customize the look of their characters more than they like
realism; at this stage, identification with a new character is
more critical than its future effect on immersion.
An idea yet to be taken up by any major commercial virtual
world25 is that of hyperlinks. It’s a simple matter to associate a
hyperlink with any object in a virtual world, characters
included, such that activating it opens a browser window to the
character’s home page. This gives players even more of an
opportunity to flesh out their characters, and can include other
useful information, such as objects the character has for sale or
is looking to buy. It’s convenient, and it’s extra content that
costs the live team nothing to create. However, it’s also 100%
immersion-breaking and very open to abuse. Some players will
create links to inappropriate web sites, and other players will
complain about it; the live team’s workload will increase
24 Remember that the term “race” here is in the sense of elves, dwarfs, and
humans rather than human ethnicity.
25 Meridian 59 excepted.
Life in the Virtual World 493
accordingly. Linking to pages hosted on the developer’s own
servers and limiting content to that auto-generated from
predefined forms would help enormously, but would lead to
increased bandwidth requirements (that is, expense).
Graphical virtual worlds use a paper doll approach to character
image design. A basic, randomly featured model of the character
is presented, which the player can tweak within certain
parameters (the client is going to have to animate this, so
changes can’t be too esoteric). Some adjustments concern the
underlying wire frame (for example, height), some concern the
palette (for example, skin tone), and some concern texture maps
(for example, facial features). There are so many variables
involved (some of which are interdependent) that most
characters will look distinct from one another, except when
someone is deliberately trying to create a doppelganger of
someone else. Players generally like their characters to be
unique26
.
When players create their character’s appearance, it’s the first
opportunity they have to engage with their character. It
therefore represents a powerful iconic representation of their
identity goals. Unfortunately, these goals can change: You
might start off as a dark, brooding, menacing figure, but in the
course of interacting with the virtual world and its players
discover a lighter side to yourself. However, the first impression
you’re giving when you meet someone new is “I am a dark,
brooding, menacing person.” Changes to apparel can have some
impact on this, and there may be hairstylists, beauty therapists,
26 They’ll even pay for it if the uniqueness is sufficiently guaranteed. If yours
is the only character in the game with a facial scar, that’s worth more than if
other people also have facial scars but theirs are different shapes. Actually,
this suits developers: Downloading a “facial scar” texture map onto a quarter
of a million PCs for the benefit of one player isn’t something they really want
to do all that often.
494 Chapter 5
and magic/plastic surgeons able to take it further. Your decision
to change has to be conscious, though, which can present a
barrier to identity exploration. Short of making characters
change physical appearance based on their emotional behavior
(which, were it implemented, would lead to a world full of
characters looking like their own Dorian Gray portraits27), this
is something that graphical virtual worlds simply have to live
with.
Appearance is a two-way cipher. It encodes what you want
other people to think of you, but it also encodes what you want
to think about yourself. When a non-newbie male player creates
a female character, that character encapsulates idealized values
that the player is aiming both to project and to experience—
only very experienced role-players can keep the two separate.
The same applies to all other aspects of character appearance—
race, hair, eyes, skin tone, height, and so on. These are lexical
tokens that combine to create impressionistic symbols
meaningful in an emergent, cultural language of identity.
Although rooted in the tangible (and, in the case of gender, in
reality), it’s the abstractions that players make, and the common
vocabulary they adopt for communicating these through
appearance, that are important.
This semiotic view of appearance comes with two caveats.
Firstly, not all players will invest time creating characters—
they’ll take the random image with which they were first
presented (unless perhaps it’s outstandingly hideous). The
players most likely to do this are
27 Oscar Wilde, The Picture of Dorian Gray. London, Lippincott’s Monthly
Magazine, 1890. Full text available at
http://www.bibliomania.com/0/0/57/103/frameset.html.
Life in the Virtual World 495
• Newbies who are super-keen to enter the virtual world
for the first time.
• Potential newbies checking out the virtual world before
committing themselves.
• Players creating secondary characters for some specific
purpose.
• Oldbies who are already as one with their online selves.
The other semiotic caveat is that some players use a more
concrete real-world symbolism of direct identification. As noted
in Chapter 3, Tolkien’s Gandalf character is one favorite role
model, but there are plenty more from other works of fiction.
Thus, in a Fantasy virtual world you may find a female character
with dark, wavy hair, dressed in tight-fitting, purple clothes and
calling herself “Deanna28.” However, although this phenomenon
is widespread across virtual worlds, each individual world
usually has only a small number of people determined to roleplay against the world fiction to this degree.
Character Generation Methods
It seems a simple task: Set the initial values for a fixed number
of genders, races, classes, attributes, and skills. What is the best
way to do it, though, so that it provides enough dilemmas to
make players think about what they’re creating, yet can be
completed quickly for those who just want to play?
There are many different ways to do it, a surprising number of
which can be offered simultaneously. Let’s go through the main
ones.
28 This would be Deanna Troi, from Star Trek: The Next Generation.
496 Chapter 5
Random
The easiest method to create a character is at random. The
server29 rolls digital dice to determine all values.
This is fast, and it may produce interesting character ideas that
the player had not considered, but some characters will be
measurably better than others (depending on how the dice fell).
A modified version uses a balancing scheme, whereby each
attribute, skill, or whatever is allocated a points rating. Random
values can then be adjusted upwards and downwards so that
the sum total of points is the same for all new characters but
their distribution won’t be. This modified system has the
advantage that it can be done on the client, with the server
merely sanity-checking the results.
Pick Points
Starting from the modified random position, pick points allow
players to tinker with the results. This saves players from rerolling continuously until they get the result they want. They
can reduce some values to gain pick points (equivalent to their
rating) and spend them on raising other values. Sometimes, not
all the pick points initially available will have been spent by the
randomizing process, leaving a pool for players to draw from.
This is better, because players don’t feel as if they have to harm
their character before they improve it; however, it does mean
that a “randomly flesh out” option should be available for
players who don’t want to waste time messing around.
The cost of attributes and skills will normally increase (and
sometimes decrease) disproportionately beyond a mid-range, to
stop players from minimaxing. For example, if a character’s
default tracking ability is 40, then it may cost one point to rise
29 Because if the client did it, it would be like printing a “please hack me” label
on the box.
Life in the Virtual World 497
to 50, another point to rise to 60, but then two points to rise to
70 and a further three to rise to 80.
One of the ways by which classes and races can be made more
distinct is to provide different base (and, sometimes, ceiling)
values for skills and attributes. A stereotypical elf, for example,
may begin with higher defaults for dexterity and archery than a
stereotypical dwarf; the dwarf may have higher strength and
axe-wielding abilities to compensate. In these cases, pick point
costs may be relative to the defaults rather than to some
absolute scale: If the elf’s default archery skill is 60 then it would
only cost one point to raise it to 70 instead of the two it would
cost the dwarf with default 40.
The total number of pick points available to a character may in
some systems be increased by taking a flaw (or quirk). The idea
here is that the character has some flaw that the player is
willing to accept in return for more pick points. For example, if a
player is designing a “desert warrior” character, then it might
be worthwhile accepting a flaw of “fear of heights” (on the
grounds that the character will never encounter any). Were a
giant eagle to pick up the character and drop it at the top of a
minaret, however, the flaw would kick in; at the very least, the
character could expect a catastrophic loss of attribute points
while the situation prevailed.
In addition to flaws, some systems have one-off improvements
that can be bought for pick points (for example, “language
aptitude”). In this case, the improvements are known as
advantages and the flaws disadvantages30. Because most
advantages fit (or can be fitted) into a skills/feats/attributes
scheme, though, they are popular.
30 Or, colloquially, perks and quirks.
498 Chapter 5
Kits
Character kits are predefined pick point spends optimized by
the designers for particular playing styles. For many newbies,
going through extensive skills lists without having a clue as to
what’s useful and what’s not is very daunting. It’s easier to look
down a (shorter?) list of character kits and make just one major
decision, and then maybe fine-tune the result.
Character kits have a special significance for classless virtual
worlds, because they allow players to create a character that is a
“sorcerer,” “ranger,” “merchant,” or whatever, but don’t lock
them into it. You can start off as a mendicant priest and end up
as chief of the assassins’ guild; the character kit you start with
points you in a direction of your choosing, but you don’t have to
follow it.
A nice feature of character kits is that they can be saved and
loaded. Because all the action in character creation happens at
the client, this means players can customize their own character
kits and give them to their friends, post them on web sites and
so on. This makes for a more involved community, although the
temptation always exists to create a crock kit and label it “archwizard” to trick newbies.
Questionnaires
Questionnaires offer a different approach to character creation.
Players answer a series of (usually) multiple-choice questions,
from which a piece of software constructs a customized
character. Questions may or may not be focused—that is, later
questions may or may not depend on your answers to earlier
questions. This can be done independently or tied into a kit
system; it’s easy to see how a player-written web-based tool
could construct characters from forms even if the developers
decided against doing it officially.
Life in the Virtual World 499
There are basically two ways that questionnaires can be used:
Ask players about the character they’re creating; ask players
about themselves. Examples:
• Your character prefers to deal with enemies
 Face to face.
 At a distance.
 Behind their backs.
 By giving them what they want.
• You view your fellow players as
 Potential victims.
 Part of the world.
 The reason you play.
 Competition.
The first approach constructs a profile of the character that the
player wants to play, then attempts to spend pick points in a
way that best reflects this. In the example given: The first
answer might suggest a confrontational role such as fighter or
lawyer; the second answer might suggest archer or magic-user;
the third answer might suggest thief or politician; the fourth
answer might suggest crafter or merchant31
.
The second approach tries to create a character that is right for
the player; this may be radically different from what the player
would have chosen otherwise. In the (somewhat unsubtle)
example given, the answers basically point at player types—
killer, explorer, socializer, achiever. Although players can enjoy
the surprise results that this technique can deliver (if only to
scoff at them) and can have fun wrestling with off-the-wall
questions (“If you were a color, what would it be?”), nevertheless
31 Developers would do well to hire a professional psychologist to help put
together such a test.
500 Chapter 5
it’s a form of psychometric testing; many players find the idea of
this uncomfortable32
.
Tabula Rasa
This method creates characters by constructing a backstory for
them. Starting as a callow youth with no skills, no quirks, and no
unusual attributes (that is, an empty slate, or tabula rasa33), the
player chooses a profession from a list. This adds some skills
and perhaps changes a few attributes. The player is then
presented with a second list that omits many of the original
choices but offers new ones instead (depending on what the
character decided). The process iterates, with new opportunities
and specializations presenting themselves. When it stops, not
only can a character be created, but a short history, too.
For example:
“Zayre spent much of her formative years helping her carpenter
father. The call to adventure was too strong, however, and so
she joined a merchant train as a traveling cooper. Soon, she
turned her talents to fletching, and became adept with the bow.
Her reputation grew as she defended the caravan from bandits
and raiders, until eventually she left to join the army as an
archery instructor. Finding the discipline too stifling, she
volunteered to become a scout, patrolling the barbarian
wilderness with only her horse, her bow, and her thoughts for
company.”
I first encountered this idea in the single-player role-playing
game Darklands34, where it was very effective. It doesn’t seem to
32 As a general rule, anything that the developer’s marketing manager would
want, players will find uncomfortable.
33 This has nothing to do with the virtual world called Tabula Rasa.
34 Arnold Hendrick and Sandy Petersen, Darklands. Hunt Valley, MA,
MicroProse Software, 1992.
Life in the Virtual World 501
have made much of an inroad into virtual worlds, though,
perhaps because it implies that characters age. This is a shame,
as it remains my personal favorite.
Essay
High-powered role-playing virtual worlds turn character
creation into an art. Players of games such as EverQuest and
Anarchy Online who regard themselves as “role-players” would
do well to consider whether they could have written an essay on
their character and its background before ever playing, to be
submitted for approval to the world’s staff members. That’s
what’s required of some MUSHers.
Role-playing virtual worlds work consensually. People who do
not buy into the fiction or who are disruptive of it have no place.
This makes all players simultaneously guardians and
perpetuators of the fiction. To gain admittance, newbies must
therefore demonstrate that they both honor the fiction and have
an aptitude for role-playing. An essay forces a player to create a
fully rounded character, in the process satisfying both these
goals. As mentioned in Chapter 1, “Introduction to Virtual
Worlds,” some virtual worlds will conduct interviews, too.
This kind of freeform character creation only works for smallscale, intimate virtual worlds with very dedicated players. Given
that most players regard essay writing as a form of torture that
should be outlawed by international convention, this is perhaps
not surprising. Nevertheless, in its place it can bring character
creation to the highest planes. It’s not by chance that some of
the best role-playing MUSHes have waiting lists35
.
35 The first commercial graphical virtual world to enforce role-playing was
Underlight, a contemporary of Meridian 59 that is still going strong. Instead of
an essay, it uses a low-options (name, gender, class) approach to character
creation, presumably so as not to scare off newbies (or create a huge
workload for its administrators). http://www.underlight.com/.
502 Chapter 5
Physical Differences
Elves are taller than dwarfs, but not at tall as humans. Dwarfs
are stronger than elves, but elves are more dexterous. Elves and
dwarfs can see in the dark, but humans can’t. There are physical
differences between character races, which are reflected in their
default attribute settings.
Okay, so what about character gender?
Ah. In virtual worlds, the differences are usually purely
cosmetic. Male and female characters look different, but apart
from that gender X is every bit as good as gender Y and vice
versa. There are three main reasons for this:
• If characters of one gender were more able than
characters of another gender, it would greatly annoy
real-life representatives of that gender because it would
seem to be saying things about them.
• On the whole, ability differences between genders really
are negligible. In day-to-day situations (as opposed to
extreme ones), tasks are usually gender-independent.
• Virtual world designers are a liberal lot who don’t want
real-life prejudices either seeping into their virtual world
or being reinforced by it.
It may surprise many students of gender studies to learn that
the third of these is perhaps the strongest. It certainly applied
to MUD136, which made no tangible distinction between
character genders except in three instances that I’ll discuss
shortly. Such gender-blindness is all very noble, of course, and it
36 In fact it more than applied: Roy was so proactive that he wrote the
documentation using female personal pronouns rather than male (which was
the default in those days) or gender-neutral (which is what I used).
Life in the Virtual World 503
promotes attitudes that can only be good if carried out to the
real world. Unfortunately, there are some real-life physical
differences between men and women that really can’t be
dismissed in virtual worlds.
In real life, genetic females can have babies, but genetic males
can’t. Few real-life women can grow a beard, most real-life men
can. Any virtual world that suggested that either of these
statements were untrue would have a hard time maintaining
immersion.
What about differences in height? That’s a little fuzzier. The
average adult male is taller than the average adult female, but
some women are taller than some men. I’m taller than my wife,
but her brother is shorter than his wife (who is also taller than
me). Nevertheless, I’m noticeably taller than most of the women
I know. In a virtual world, would I have to be the same height so
as not to disadvantage female characters?
Well, perhaps not, because in a virtual world height can easily be
regarded as cosmetic. Humans won’t bang their heads in dwarf
houses, and dwarfs can reach things from the top shelf of a
bookcase. Graphical worlds might have a more practical
problem in that super-tall races simply won’t fit in small places,
but if they do it’s a problem of their own making37. Nevertheless,
in general female characters can be made to look smaller than
male ones while having collision-detection boxes the same size.
However, what about strength? Men have significantly greater
upper body strength than women. I may be shorter than my
37 Horizons has a dragon race that suffers in this respect. The designers’
preferred solution is to give dragons an ability to shape-shift into humanoid
form (rather than simply an ability to shrink), so they can interact with other
PCs. Sadly, the ability to shape-shift back into dragon form while inside
someone’s shack is unlikely to be available.
504 Chapter 5
sister-in-law, but I can easily beat her at arm-wrestling. Should
male characters have a higher base strength than female
characters? If so, should female characters be compensated with
a higher dexterity and/or stamina? This is precisely what MUD1
did: Initial attributes for characters were set using a randomnumber generator, then female characters had 10 subtracted
from their strength and 5 added to each of their dexterity and
stamina. It was possible to get strong female characters, but
strong males were more likely.
In reality, though, the differences between male and female
dexterity and stamina are marginal compared to the male
advantage in strength (dexterity may be more related to size
than gender). I was balancing genders in MUD1, but not in a
realistic fashion. How far should virtual worlds reflect reality as
it is, as opposed to reality as people wish it were?
There were two other ways that MUD1 made a distinction
between male and female characters. One of these was to have a
matched pair of puzzles that you had to be a certain gender to
complete, namely kissing a sleeping beauty (for males) and
kissing a frog prince (for females). I was never happy with these,
though, because they were unfair on gay players: Both the
sleeping beauty and the frog prince were heterosexual, and
didn’t take kindly to advances from members of their own sex38
.
I did not migrate either of these puzzles to MUD2.
The other tangible way that MUD1 used gender was that it had
magic to flip it: Male characters could become female, and
female characters could become male. This was nonconsensual—other characters could cast the necessary spell on
38 Interestingly, gay players liked the “he’s a prince, not a queen” line that
accompanied an attempt by a male to kiss the frog prince. The complaints I
did receive were from non-gay players who took it on themselves to speak
out on behalf of the gay community.
Life in the Virtual World 505
you whether or not you wanted them to. It wasn’t something
that people did very often: It had a high chance of failure, the
penalty for which was the caster’s falling asleep; besides, most
people didn’t actually care if it happened to them39. Having their
character’s gender changed commonly angered only two groups
of players:
• Newbies and recently ex-newbies, who hadn’t yet grasped
the fact that virtual worlds can have a different culture to
the real one.
• Players deliberately playing characters of the opposite
gender who viewed it as an interruption of their experiment.
It’s possible to have tangible but neutral differences between
genders that (in theory at least) hurt neither. For example, plate
armor breastplates could reasonably be restricted so only
characters of the gender they were made for could use them.
This might lead to economic imbalances, though: If supply and
demand differed by much, one gender could end up paying more
for their breastplates than another. Should a designer strive to
eliminate such unfairness, or accept it as an inevitable
consequence of increasing the virtual world’s depth?
To conclude: There are significant physical differences between
men and women in the real world. For the short-term periods
that characters exist in virtual worlds, these can be embraced
fully, embraced cosmetically, or conveniently ignored. Unless
they’re making a deliberate point about gender, most virtual
worlds will stop short of adding tangible gender differences
between characters. There are too many real-world
consequences otherwise.
39 Players of high-level personae would frequently lose track of their
character’s gender; they’d know which gender they were “supposed” to be
and would act according to that, but wouldn’t necessarily know what gender
they were physically presenting at the time.
506 Chapter 5
Yet character gender isn’t really all that different to character
race. Why is it fine to suggest that one race might be stronger
or smarter or more pain-resistant than another, but it isn’t fine
to say the same thing about gender? These may be made-up
“races,” but it’s easy to see how such casual references to “racial
differences” can perpetuate false notions of racial differences in
the real world. Chapter 8 considers this issue in greater detail.
Long-Term Characters
Should player characters age? There are some characters in text
MUDs that have been played for so long that, were they alive in
the real world, they’d be entitled to vote.
For virtual worlds with moderately low persistence, it’s perhaps
not an issue. If the world periodically resets, it never ages; it’s
not inconsistent to suppose that the characters entering such a
timeless world shouldn’t change either.
For greatly persistent worlds, it’s not this easy. EverQuest’s
night/day cycle is 90 real minutes in length. That means 3 years
of real time is nearly 50 years of virtual time. As the virtual
world never formally resets, shouldn’t 3-year-old characters be
in late middle age by now? Everyone must sup regularly from a
fountain of youth.
Aging, like gender differences, is one of those inconvenient facts
of real life that designers often omit from virtual worlds. They
don’t even address it cosmetically: Beautiful characters are
forever beautiful.
The reason for this, of course, is that aging implies decay and,
ultimately, death. The decay part might be acceptable to players
if it’s balanced by something else—for example, dexterity might
drop but intelligence might rise. What they are unlikely to
Life in the Virtual World 507
accept without a great deal of persuasion is that they
themselves are responsible for supplying the main gain that
comes with aging: experience. Their character will be better
when it is older because of what it experienced when it was
younger—that is, how they played it.
Character death is not something that sits easy with players,
even when it’s “natural” through aging. Would people buy a
music CD if it was guaranteed to stop playing after five years?
Why would a player want to start in a virtual world knowing
that their character would be taken from them when at the
height of its powers? What about the players of elf-types, whose
characters are practically immortal? Would female characters
get an extra two or three years, as they do in the real world? It’s
almost inevitable that in such a climate, some fiction would have
to be created to assuage the concerns of long-term players.
Characters don’t age because, er, there’s something in the air.
Okay, so they don’t age. Time still passes, though. Characters
get married all the time in virtual worlds—it’s a common
ceremony (and one I’ve performed many times myself). Do they
get to have virtual children?
Virtual children pose so many problems for virtual world
designers that most will avoid the topic at all costs.
Unfortunately for me, as author of this book I can’t do that.
Here, therefore, are the main issues:
• Children have to be conceived. We all know how this
happens in the real world, but….
• Women bear children and men don’t. Is this unfair on male
characters, unfair on female characters, or unfair on both?
• It takes nine months from conception for a human baby to
be born. Even at accelerated time, this is plenty long enough
for the player to have second thoughts. Are virtual abortions
allowed?
508 Chapter 5
• After a few months, pregnant women look different to nonpregnant women. Do their character models change?
• The final few weeks of pregnancy can be quite disabling.
Should pregnant characters still be able to hack dragons
with the best of them, or would suggesting this be
irresponsible?
• Labor and the birth: These are going to be faked up to
happen when the player is logged off, right?
• Naturally all babies are born in perfect condition without
any complications. So, who looks after them, and how?
• Are children shown in the virtual world? If so, they grow,
they change shape—all that needs to be modeled.
• How are children’s looks and attributes computed? Are
“designer babies” possible? What about something basic,
such as choosing a child’s sex?
• Parents don’t age, but their children do?
• Can you sell your children into slavery? Every real-world
parent has thought about it….
• Have you any idea how expensive it is to bring up kids?!
• Are children educated automatically? Do parents have any
say in the matter? What if they disagree?
• Can children die before they reach adulthood? Can they be
killed?
• Who gets custody of the children when the parents split?
• Can parents abandon their children? In worlds with
permanent death, what happens to orphans?
• Who gets to play a child once it reaches adulthood?
• What tangible reasons are there for having children
anyway?
There are serious moral, practical, and implementational issues
concerning virtual children. They can all be addressed, but
never to the satisfaction of everyone. In most virtual worlds, the
cost of implementing virtual children so outweighs the benefits
Life in the Virtual World 509
that it makes sense to put the idea in the “forget about it” pile.
The main exceptions are
• Virtual worlds with a strong, realistic theme (particularly
ones in an historical context). Children may be necessary
for gameplay reasons, and the prevailing morals of the
modeled reality can be used to answer some of the more
awkward questions.
• Virtual worlds actually about children—for example,
educational ones.
• Virtual worlds with permanent death, where children are
used in an inheritance fiction to replace dead
characters40
.
And that, thank goodness, is quite enough of that.
The Virtual Body
Players enter virtual worlds through the medium of their
characters. Although in general the player determines the
appearance of a character, characters are not merely ghostly
projections of the spirit: They are tangible entities within the
virtual world, as real (to it) as any other object. As
representations of sentient beings, they have attributes and
skills; however, they have other functionality merely by virtue of
their being objects. From this point of view, the virtual body is a
machine that the character lives in. What should this machine
do? And what happens when it stops doing it?
40 This means that the death isn’t actually permanent, of course, as
characters are reincarnated as their offspring. There’s more on this subject
later in this chapter.
510 Chapter 5
Maintenance
You wake up, you visit the bathroom, you wash, you brush your
teeth, you have breakfast.
You wake up because you went to sleep. You have to go to sleep
because human (and most other animal) brains won’t work if
you don’t.
You visit the bathroom because your body is powered by
chemical reactions that generate waste products.
You wash and brush your teeth for cultural reasons. You don’t
have to, although the chances are it’ll prolong your life
considerably if you do. People used to die if they got an abscess
on a tooth.
You have breakfast because you need fuel. You noticed you were
breathing too?
This is an example of a maintenance schedule. It varies from
person to person. Some people might include a bit of exercise,
others might count their morning prayers as “maintenance for
the soul.” The point is, it’s a routine. Except in special
circumstances (for example, illness or vacation), it’s something
you do daily; it’s not for fun, nor for gain, but to avoid the
consequences of not doing it.
Should virtual bodies have maintenance routines like real ones?
Characters have no need to sleep or eat or anything else unless
designers say so. Why lock them into the same tyranny of
routine that players must observe?
The only strong argument in favor is that of realism (that is, it
helps immersion). Unfortunately, in this particular case it’s very
powerful. Players don’t actually want to undertake a routine for
Life in the Virtual World 511
their character, but they do need to know that their character
has a routine, and that it’s being followed. It’s a general principle
of virtual world design that if every player has to do exactly the
same boring thing, none of them should have to do it. Thus, the
solution suggested in Chapter 4, “World Design,” of abstracting
the maintenance routine is a good one; furthermore, the fact
that characters are charged for it means that players will notice,
thereby reassuring them that these strongly ingrained but
wholly irrelevant activities are taking place41
.
There is a difference between abstracting and removing,
though. A character who puts on make-up might want to wash
it off right there and then; in this case, it’s not an act of general
maintenance, but a normal action to achieve a specific purpose.
Similarly, just because characters by default empty their
bladders when their player is logged off, that doesn’t mean they
shouldn’t be able to do it at other times: Urinating on a small
campfire is as easy a way of putting it out as any other (at least
for men)42. If characters want to eat, drink, and sleep explicitly
rather than behind the scenes, they shouldn’t necessarily be
prohibited from doing so.
To summarize, then: Routine maintenance should always be
abstracted, but the actions that it abstracts should also be
available independently (cultural circumstances permitting).
Survival
Don’t go to sleep on the ground if it’s covered in snow; if you do,
you’ll get hypothermia and die. The same thing will happen if
41 It can be removed at higher levels of experience; we can assume that demigods don’t need to bother with this kind of thing, for example.
42 For fairly obvious reasons, this particular action is more acceptable to
textual worlds than to graphical ones.
512 Chapter 5
you swim in icy water. In a desert, if you don’t freeze to death at
night you may bake to death during the day.
That’s in the real world. In virtual worlds, you will either suffer
some minor, temporary skill or attribute degradation or you
won’t notice any ill effects at all. Characters are generally
immune to the environment.
So? Why be unpleasant to players just for the sake of it?
Why indeed….
Well, it’s because there are subtle side effects to this kind of
automatic survival. For example, people live in houses primarily
for shelter. If they don’t have anything from which to shelter,
they don’t have to live in houses. Sure, they might want them as
warehouses, but that’s hardly the stuff of which communities
are made.
There are other survival reasons that cause people to want to
live close to one another. If characters are going to live anyway,
though, these don’t apply. Easy access to food and water is only
an issue if players have maintenance schedules that need them;
healthcare is only important if people can fall ill; mutual defense
is unnecessary if attackers can’t hurt you.
In other words, some of the more primitive and tedious aspects
of the real world that players don’t want to experience act,
unfortunately, to set up some of the more advanced and
enjoyable aspects that they do want to experience. This conflict
between what players want and what they are prepared to put
Life in the Virtual World 513
up with to get it is a constant that runs throughout virtual
world design43
.
Sensing the Virtual World
Traditionally, human beings have five senses: sight, hearing,
taste, smell, and touch. These are the means by which
individuals can detect the world about them. Virtual worlds that
have human or humanoid characters will usually want to
account for these senses, with perhaps some additional ones for
special cases (bat-like sonar, insect-like infravision, and so on).
Most virtual worlds, whether graphical or textual, emphasize
vision. When a character enters a location, the player
experiences what the character can see. They may also
experience what their character can hear. Textual worlds also
will make occasional reference to smells and tactile sensations
(for example, heat from a fire), but taste only really comes into it
when something is eaten or drunk.
In graphical worlds, the players’ senses double up as the
characters’: Players actually see what their characters see44 and
actually hear what their characters hear (plus the annoying
soundtrack). In textual worlds, players are told what their
characters see, hear, smell, and feel (through the skin—not
emotionally). The scene is constructed in the imagination of the
players, which paradoxically can lead to a more vivid
experience. Although most players of textual worlds will of
course use their own sight to read what is sent to them, this
does not have to be the case: There are numerous examples of
43 For a brief, but cogent, overview of other aspects of virtual world design
that dampen the formation of societies, see Darien Kane’s essay Sins of the
Empire. http://www.stratics.com/content/ editorials/articles/sins.shtml.
44 Or, if they don’t have a first-person viewpoint, the same scene that their
characters can see.
514 Chapter 5
blind players using speech synthesizers or non-blind friends to
read the text aloud; graphical worlds are not conducive to this.
Although textual worlds can utilize more senses and deliver a
more compelling experience, graphical worlds have three main
advantages over them:
• The graphical experience is more immediate: You don’t
have to interpret what you see, you just see it.
• Graphical images can display more information of a
certain kind than can textual images. Scanning 50 faces
for a friend is easier (for most people) than scanning a list
of names45
.
• Graphical worlds use multiple channels. You can hear
while you see. Textual worlds are essentially linear:
You’re told what you see before or after you’re told what
you hear.
For newbies in particular, text is unappealing. The fact that you
can take photographs of smells in textual worlds is less relevant
than the fact that you can see where you’re going in graphical
ones.
Sometimes, senses are impaired or ineffective. In real life, for
example, you can’t see in total darkness. What happens in
virtual worlds?
Well, there are a number of solutions. Here are the most
common:
45 Even though in graphical worlds people will often scan above-head names
rather than faces, this is still easier than in textual worlds as the names
aren’t scrolling.
Life in the Virtual World 515
• Suggest the impairment, but don’t enforce it. A graphical
world may darken the screen, but not actually black it
out.
• Provide a trivially easy remedy. Give everyone a portable
light source.
• Make it temporary. If you enter a dark room from a light
one, your eyes need to adjust to the dark before you can
see; when you return, your eyes need to adjust to the
light first. The process only takes a few seconds, but the
wait can be scary. Popular in textual worlds.
• Play it straight. Actually black out the screen. Don’t send
update packets, either, so players can’t hack the client to
make it think it’s full daylight. Only relent if they’re
under attack.
Impairment is one thing, but what happens when one or more
of your character’s senses isn’t working at all? What if, as a
result of accident or magic, your character loses the ability to
see or hear?
In graphical worlds, the answer is simply “It Does Not Happen.”
It would be possible to continue playing without sound, but
without vision there simply isn’t enough other sensory
information available to compensate.
In textual worlds, it’s a different story. You can try things and
get feedback. If you walk into a wall, you can be told there’s a
wall in the way (rather than a tree or a door or a dragon). Things
that make noises or have smells or give off heat can still be
described. You can pick up things and know what they are by
their shape. Losing a sense could even be essential for solving a
puzzle—for example, if you’re blind, then the snake-hair ugly
woman can’t turn you to stone.
The way to do this is to use dynamic descriptions. Most textural
virtual worlds, it should be noted, use static descriptions and
516 Chapter 5
therefore also have problems implementing lost senses
(generally they take out too much information—blind
characters can’t hear either). Here’s an example to illustrate
what I mean.
A description of an object might be “Ticking in a corner is an
antique grandfather clock.” If a deaf character (or one wearing
ear defenders) came into the room, they wouldn’t know it was
ticking. Should they see the description of the clock or not?
Well, strictly speaking, not. If it were a static description,
though, either the whole description stays or the whole
description goes, neither of which is satisfactory. Dynamic
descriptions individualize the text depending on the character’s
sensory abilities. Thus, a deaf character would see “Standing in a
corner is an antique grandfather clock;” a blind character (or
one wearing a blindfold) would hear “Ticking nearby is a
grandfather clock.” If the designer doesn’t consider ticking to be
enough to identify an object, it might just be “Something ticks
nearby.”
Dynamic descriptions allow for changes due to a character’s
skills or knowledge, too. In the preceding example, the use of the
adjective “antique” may depend on whether a character is an
historian or not, for example. If a character is running, they may
notice less than if they’re walking; if they’re concentrating or
searching, they may notice more. A virtual world can
incorporate this information into a dynamic description
appropriate to each character.
Although senses can work below their normal levels, they also
can be implemented to work beyond them. Characters can be
given the ability to see like they were looking through a
telescope, or to hear heartbeats at a hundred paces, or to taste
the recipe that was used to create a dish. Superhuman senses in
a world that contains superhumans do make, er, sense.
Although there is no problem with this for active senses (ones
Life in the Virtual World 517
you have to decide to invoke—for example, touching something
to discover how it feels), passive senses can be more
problematic. If you can hear heartbeats at a hundred paces and
there are fifty people within a hundred paces, that’s a lot of
heartbeats. For this reason, even passive senses will usually be
considered active beyond a certain threshold. Switch on your
bionic ear when you want to hear how many guards there are at
the other side of the door, then switch it off afterward.
Body Composition
When a character picks up something, strangely this does not
mean that the object teleports into their backpack. To make
sense, they need to use their hand. Similarly, when they walk,
their legs and arms move, when they look to one side their head
moves, and when they’re fleeing in mindless panic every part of
their body moves. The issues involved here extend beyond mere
animation: If characters can move their hands, that implies they
have hands to move.
It doesn’t take long following this line of argument to conclude
that bodies must be regarded as assemblies, as discussed in
Chapter 4. Following on from our look at senses, though, it’s
natural to ask the question: What happens if a body part works
above or below normal levels?
As with senses, the default is that every body component works
to its full potential. Because of the way that they interact, it’s
more difficult to make individual body parts superhuman than it
is for senses; there may be comic potential in giving a character
a hugely muscled ring finger, but it wouldn’t be a lot of use
unless the rest of the hand and arm was muscle-bound too. For
this reason, most of the consequences of having improved body
parts in virtual worlds are abstracted as character attributes
instead.
518 Chapter 5
When body parts don’t work for whatever reason, it’s a different
matter. Tedious though it may be from a programming
perspective, it is nevertheless possible to put a guard on all
commands to restrict their individual use if a body part (or
assembly of parts) that is out of action46. For example, if your
hands are tied behind your back and you want to pick
something up, you can’t. You might be able to “get key with
teeth,” but then you wouldn’t be able to use your mouth
assembly until you’d let go of it. Note that some body parts are
connected to senses. Most importantly, if a character’s eyes are
shielded or missing, then they can’t see anything.
It’s tempting to use this idea to build an abstract anatomical
model of a human body so that the effects of various events can
be worked out. “Ah, when the nose and mouth are both blocked
that means no air can reach the lungs, therefore no blood can be
oxygenated, therefore no muscles can work, therefore death
results.” In practice, though, this can be handled explicitly
without the need for deduction. A spear through the chest
means your character is dead—that’s really all you need to
know.
Body parts can cease to function for three main reasons:
• Restraints. You can’t run because you’re wearing diving
boots.
• Damage. You can’t run because a tiger ate your leg.
• Flaws. You can’t run because you have a club foot.
Damage can arise in some combat systems that allow for
“critical hits” or “targeted damage.” Although ostensibly
46 I know this is possible because in the past I’ve designed it and seen it
implemented.
Life in the Virtual World 519
permanent, there will almost invariably be some means by
which a lost limb can be recovered.
Flaws are the quirks that some virtual worlds allow players to
assign to their characters in return for more pick points. Again,
although these are supposed to be inherent aspects of a
character’s identity, they can frequently be cured. The fact that
quirks can (literally) “add character” is only of long-term
interest to hard role-players; soft role-players may regret an
early decision to take a flaw, and in a virtual world without
permanent death they will complain rather than start anew.
Note that a character lacking one or more organs, limbs, or
senses can be considered disabled47. There are ethical issues
arising from this, discussed in Chapter 8.
Groups
In virtual worlds, being the social beasts they are, it is
imperative that players be able to form groups. The more
populous the world, the more important it is that there is hardcoded support for this activity.
Chapter 3 introduced the idea of groups as the foundations of
community. The point was made that people should be able to
join multiple groups, so they can participate in multiple
communities that are not hermetically sealed from one another;
this gives players a greater sense of belonging to a virtual world
(translation: They’ll find it harder to leave if they can’t take all
their friends with them). When players can join only one group,
47 I’m using this word in the technical sense: An ability the character had has
been turned off. If you prefer a euphemism, use that instead.
520 Chapter 5
that group will develop to maturity quicker but can leave as a
unit; also, individuals who leave their group will often find
hooking up with another group difficult, which could mean a
crisis for them.
Single or multiple group membership is just one of the
dimensions that can be used to describe groups. Other
important ones are
• Formal or informal?
• Temporary or permanent?
• Flat or hierarchical?
• Hardwired or softwired?
Let’s take a closer look at these distinctions.
Formal or Informal?
In small-population virtual worlds, everyone knows everyone
else and there is no need for formal grouping commands. If you
want to create a group for whatever purpose, you chat to
prospective members and there you have it, a group.
This is an informal group. The main problem is finding someone
willing to do the organizing, rather than the virtual world’s lack
of support for it. Informal groups arise in all virtual worlds. In
small-scale ones, they’re all you need; when more players are
involved, some notion of a group as a tangible entity usually
surfaces.
If members of a group are to communicate on a special group
channel, or are to accept mutual concessions (such as seeing one
another’s basic stats or pooling experience points gained), or if
the group as an entity is to possess anything (money, property),
the virtual world needs to be able to reference that group. There
must therefore be a formal process by which the group is
Life in the Virtual World 521
created, which gives us the concept of formal groups. It is quite
common for formal groups to be created from informal groups.
Note that it’s conceivable in either case for a group to have
NPCs as members, although for informal groups the AI
necessary to support it would be considerable.
Temporary or Permanent?
Sometimes, people want to group together for only a short
period—a single session. A group of characters are hanging out
at a bar, someone comes in and announces that there are wolves
attacking the village, so everyone bands together to beat off the
wolves. This would be a temporary group.
Groups that persist (in particular, that would continue to exist
when all their members were logged off) are classified as being
permanent. Even if the group has a definite aim and will cease to
exist after a certain point (for example, a consortium to sell
virtual pumpkins on Halloween), it counts as being permanent if
it would survive as an entity were all its members to log off.
Temporary groups tend to be (but aren’t always) informal;
permanent groups tend to be (but aren’t always) formal. For
formal groups, there may be differences in facilities depending
on whether they are temporary or permanent: It doesn’t really
make sense for a temporary group to own property, for
example. Although it’s possible to implement a temporary
group as a permanent one, there are two principal reasons why
a designer might decide not to do this:
• People are often more willing to sign up to a group on the
understanding that it’s a one-off commitment than they
would be if it were permanent. They might want to join a
lynch mob, but not the police.
522 Chapter 5
• Players may be limited to one permanent group (to help it
develop quicker) but allowed to join any number of
temporary groups (to assist the development of a wider
sense of community).
It is important that temporary groups be quick to form and
quick to disband. Players regard them as a superficial
convenience, therefore anything that makes them inconvenient
(even having a hard-to-remember command name) will reduce
usage.
Flat or Hierarchical?
When all members of a group have the same powers as one
another, that group has a fiat organization; if some members
have more powers than others, it is hierarchical.
Most formal groups are at least nominally hierarchical, as they
usually have a designated leader who (minimally) can expel
individual members but can’t be expelled by them. In practice,
though, there is a big gulf between this shallow tree structure
and a full-blooded hierarchy with multiple levels, promotion,
and demotion between levels, and increased powers the higher
up the hierarchy you go. This degree of structure is almost
always only present in formal groups, and aspects of it may be
supported by the underlying code. For example, if the group has
money and can own things, there may be provision for “treasury
powers,” allowing a designated individual to determine who is
allowed to spend the money and within what limits (that is, give
a budget).
There have been many experiments in virtual worlds with
customizable hierarchies, with textual worlds (as usual) at the
forefront. They have the benefit, however, of relatively small and
innovation-friendly populations compared with those of
Life in the Virtual World 523
graphical worlds, so even poorly thought-out ideas can work
well enough in practice.
For the big, graphical worlds, it’s more hit and miss. Meridian 59
had a system whereby ranks could be created within a guild,
allowing extra hierarchical levels that enabled groups to
restructure themselves as they grew. This was a step in the
right direction, although the powers associated with the new
ranks weren’t easy to fine-tune.
The bravest early attempt at building a hierarchy was made by
Asheron’s Call with its allegiance system. In this, a vassal
character swears allegiance to a patron character. The patron
may already have other vassals (up to a dozen), and may have
their own patron (hence the hierarchy). The primary tangible
benefits of the relationship are that a proportion of the
experience points earned by all a patron’s vassals is also passed
to the patron. There also is a ranking system, whereby titles are
conferred on characters the more vassals they have beneath
them48; there are tangible benefits to a high rank, in that some
magical artifacts won’t work below a certain threshold.
Asheron’s Call only allowed characters one patron (that is, they
could only be in one hierarchy). It did permit them to join
temporary formal groups, although in practice these were
usually composed of members of the same near branch of a
hierarchy. Although it’s easy to criticize AC for limiting
characters to a single social group in this way, actually that
wasn’t the reason its allegiance system fell short of fulfilling
early hopes. The problem was, although there were tangible
reasons for a character to have vassals, there were only
intangible reasons for a character to be a vassal. Although
48 It’s actually more complex than this, as it accounts for how well the vassal
tree is balanced.
524 Chapter 5
intangibles can hold together vast clans in (and sometimes
across) virtual worlds, AC had an unbalanced system. By
trickling up experience points, it asserted that allegiance was a
part of gameplay; by trickling nothing back down, it denied it.
Most people need no incentive to be the boss of other people,
but they do need incentive to be bossed by them. Critical to this
is the belief that they themselves may be able to rise in a
hierarchy, where “rise” means “getting nearer to the top” rather
than “getting further from the bottom.” AC got it the wrong way
round. It was close, but no cigar.
Hardwired or Softwired?
A hardwired group is one that is programmed directly into the
virtual world. A softwired group is one that is created by the
players. All hardwired groups are permanent, and therefore
they can be thought of as a subset of permanent groups.
Similarly, although it’s possible to conceive of hardwired
informal groups (built around predefined, labeled
communication channels in the style of CB radio), in most
virtual worlds that have them all hardwired groups also are
formal; they can therefore be thought of as a subset of formal
groups, too.
It used to be that all formal groups were hardwired into virtual
worlds. Nowadays, players can set up groups themselves, of
course, and virtual worlds are much the better for it. That
doesn’t mean there’s no room for hardwired groups, though.
What softwired groups gain in flexibility, they lose in
specialization. It would, for example, be unwise to allow
softwired groups to impose taxes on the inhabitants of a town;
it would perhaps be acceptable, however, to allow the town
council to do so. The town council is an example of a hardwired
group.
Life in the Virtual World 525
Hardwired groups exist mainly for functional purposes;
although social networks can benefit from having features that
are coded in (for example, you can’t join the local bandits unless
your horse-riding skills are sufficiently high49), the more
practical groups tend to dominate. They’re particularly useful
for newbies, because they guarantee there’s an immediate place
for them in the virtual society.
Note that there is a difference between hardwired features for
groups and hardwired groups. All formal groups have
hardwired features (it’s what makes them formal), but these are
configurable. Even if new groups can choose arbitrary values for
arbitrary properties to use as entrance criteria, that would still
make them softwired as the players can do something about it.
Hardwired groups are fundamentally inviolate: They’re as much
a part of the virtual world as the landscape and the mobiles.
One of the main advantages of hardwired groups is that it’s
much easier to arrange for NPCs to join them. Few players will
care to stand around bored for hours on guard duty, but
(presumably) someone has to do it; NPCs fit the bill perfectly. In
this respect, NPC members of a group can be thought of as
resources that the player characters can control—an option not
really open to other kinds of groups.
Typical hardwired hierarchies (yes, they do tend to be
hierarchies) are
• Ruling/legislative. The people that make the laws. Monarchs,
councilors, presidents, and so on.
49 Informal groups have to police this themselves, but formal groups can do it
automatically from entrance criteria specifications if the virtual world is
sophisticated enough to have these.
526 Chapter 5
• Military. The defense (or offense) forces. There may be
different branches for land, sea, air, space, or whatever.
Captains, sergeants, wing commanders, and so on.
• Religious. Those who concern themselves with the spiritual
well-being (as they see it) of the virtual world. There may be
competing religions, with different temples offering
different services and worshiping different gods. Priests,
mullahs, bishops, and so on.
• Judicial. My gimp takes A’s gold and B’s silver and passes it
to my smith, who makes it into an electrum brooch. The
judiciary sorts it out50
. Judges, magistrates, lawyers, and so
on.
• Guild. Craft- or service-oriented groups of people pooling
resources, determining prices, offering employment.
Whether these are hardwired or softwired depends largely
on how the economy is run51. Guild masters/mistresses,
branch secretaries, shop stewards, and so on.
• Educational. People who teach and train. Some of these may
be part of other hierarchies. Professors, drill instructors,
gurus, and so on.
• Law enforcement. Those who prevent crime and apprehend
criminals. This hierarchy could be part of the military in
some cases. Strictly speaking, law enforcement only has to
enforce the laws made by the legislator; some hierarchies
may have their own law enforcers with a very specific remit
(for example, the religious police). Inspectors, inquisitors,
speed cops, and so on.
All formal groups have powers. The extent of these powers is
mainly over the members of the group, but in the case of
hardwired groups this can extend significantly to nonmembers.
50 Aside: Is the fact that the gimp and the smith are both played by me
admissible as evidence? If so, what fiction would explain this?
51 DikuMUDs often use guilds as an alternative to character classes.
Life in the Virtual World 527
Furthermore, although players can take their characters out of
softwired groups and set up with someone else, this is not an
option with hardwired groups.
Although some of these powers can be limited by the code, they
remain highly susceptible to abuse. Judges, for example, are
always working with intangibles; otherwise, the virtual world
could sort out the problems itself and judges wouldn’t be
needed. Low turn-out elections can be hijacked by special
interest groups (for example, griefer clans), guards can be made
to abandon their posts, training can be withheld or offered only
to friends; the list goes on.
Because there are significant issues concerning the control of
hardwired groups, community management staff should be
consulted about their design. Players who have an important
position in such a group are often assumed by other players to
be acting with the live team’s blessing, whether or not this is
indeed the case. Even if the players who hold high office are
vetted for suitability first, there could still be problems: Just
how long can you make a character’s jail sentence be before it
amounts to permanent death? With power comes responsibility;
sadly, those on the receiving end of power rarely have the same
notion of “responsibility” that those wielding it do.
Common Configurations
Although there are many different ways that softwired groups
can be set up, some tend to be more useful than others.
Designers may therefore want to have easy-to-use templates for
these in place, so that players don’t have to worry about setting
flags that don’t interest them. As long as the basic models are all
configurable, this is fine.
Common configurations are:
528 Chapter 5
• Fellowships. Temporary groups of characters that get
together for a single session then go their separate ways.
• Parties. Permanent or (more usually) casual adventuring
bands. People who play together regularly.
• Clans. Large, disparate groups of characters. Although
mainly a social network, individual members may come
together occasionally for activities that require numbers.
They’re generally too unwieldy to organize for extended
periods.
• Guilds. These are like clans, but with a supporting game
fiction. Some virtual worlds pursue this vision more than
others: Dark Age of Camelot, for example, allows players to
design their own guild crests, with the result that guilds feel
more integrated into the virtual world than they otherwise
might.
• Alliances. Groups of guilds or clans acting as if they were
one. A single, huge alliance that completely and aggressively
dominates its virtual world is known as a überguild.
Many mid-sized groups are run by politician-type players, who
chivvy people into doing things and generally keep the group
together. Such groups can rapidly fall apart if their leader quits
or moves on. Some designers regard this as a good thing,
because it allows for players to join other groups with a better
chance of survival (an evolutionary argument); other designers
don’t like it because any failure of community could cause
players to leave (the “other groups” that players join could be in
another virtual world). The latter designers will institute
automated rules of succession so that groups always have
leaders, and votes of confidence so that inert leaders can be
replaced; the former designers won’t.
Combat
Life in the Virtual World 529
Combat is an important feature of most game-oriented virtual
worlds. It embodies conflict, drama, risk, bravery, friendship,
honor, glory—it has everything! Indeed, in some virtual worlds
it is everything; there’s very little to do apart from move from
one battle to the next. As explained in Chapter 3, by no means all
virtual worlds are like this, of course: Merely having combat52
doesn’t inevitably mean that the virtual world will end up being
“all about” it. Nevertheless, many virtual worlds are indeed “all
about” combat; this causes an ideological conflict with worlds
that are “all about” something else (for example, role-playing),
and annoys the balanced worlds who are lumped in with them
even though they may be anti-conflict53
.
The subject of combat in virtual worlds brings out some of the
most passionate arguments in the whole field. Let’s take a look
at it in detail.
How Combat Works
Taking a wide perspective, combat involves many activities:
Magic-users cast spells, archers shoot arrows, clerics patch up
the injured. Important and battle-winning that these may be,
they are nevertheless mere adjuncts to the central conflict: Two
individuals standing toe to toe, slugging it out with close-up
weapons. The reason for this is simple: Hand-to-hand combat is
more thrilling than ranged combat. The monsters are in your
face. Yes, the wizard cranking up the spell that will nuke the bad
guys is excited, but it’s an excitement borne by what’s going on
52 Or some equivalent. I’ve worked on an adult-themed virtual world where
sex was implemented using the same routines that other virtual worlds use
for swordfights.
53 It’s an established principle of MUD2 that attacking other players is a
losing strategy; players discover that committing unjust acts of aggression
simply won’t get them anywhere, until eventually only those with a constant
need to reinforce their self-worth (or who have already “won”) undertake it.
530 Chapter 5
at the front line: If the tanks aren’t excited by the fight, the
wizard won’t be either.
For this reason54, most virtual worlds that have combat put
hand-to-hand at the forefront. This defines the basic mechanism
and the measures for success or failure. Ranged combat
conforms to the same system, as does magic (whether the
offensive or defensive kind). In discussing combat, therefore, it
makes sense to focus on the hand-to-hand variety.
Here’s how MUD1 did hand-to-hand combat:
• One character attacks another player in the same
location.
• An automatic fight sequence begins, in which characters
take turns hitting each other.
• The chance of hitting is based on the character’s
dexterity attribute.
• The damage done is based on the character’s strength
attribute.
• Damage is deducted from the character’s stamina55
property.
• When one character’s stamina falls below 1, that
character dies and the fight ends.
This is still pretty much the paradigm. Damage can be increased
by weapons and reduced by armor and shields; spells can buff
attributes, repair injuries, and do the opposite (to opponents);
some combatants may have multiple attacks (dragons can
breathe fire while clawing at you); skills may allow for additional
54 Actually, many designers use a different reason: “It’s how the virtual world
I grew up on worked.”
55 Nowadays, “stamina” typically refers to how much exhaustive activity a
character can undertake; MUD1’s stamina is called “health.”
Life in the Virtual World 531
special actions. In all these, the underlying mechanism remains
basically the same.
Why did MUD1 do it this way? It looks suspiciously like the way
that Dungeons & Dragons combat works—so similar that many
virtual worlds openly refer to characters’ health as “hit points,”
in the D&D tradition.
MUD1 did it this way because it delivered the gameplay. Roy
wanted combat to proceed as exchanges of blows—I swing, you
swing, I swing, you swing—because that was the most
appropriate level of abstraction. He wanted it automated
because otherwise it would have been tedious for players
continually to type “hit them56.” When one character swings at
another character, there has to be some chance of hitting: This
was encapsulated by the dexterity attribute. As for what to do
when a hit got through, well, obviously there had to be some
damage.
Roy and I discussed how to handle this. Although I knew the
D&D combat system well, I also knew other ways to do this kind
of thing (I didn’t only play D&D, after all). Come to that, I’d
already designed board games and a computer game57 that used
different mechanisms. Overall, though, the classic approach
won on the basis of simplicity. When you’re in a fight, you want
an instant readout on how well you’re doing. Anything too
complicated wouldn’t give players enough time to absorb it;
anything much simpler and combat wouldn’t have been any fun.
56 Note that clicking a mouse is much easier than typing, which is why
graphical virtual worlds can get away with non-automatic hand-to-hand
combat.
57 A two-player tank warfare game in BASIC which is now lost to the world
(not that the world should be bothered about this!). It used a target location
approach, whereby each hit could knock out a system or crew member,
reducing the options that the player had for their subsequent commands.
532 Chapter 5
We decided, therefore, to give characters a number of “lives.”
Whenever a character was hit successfully, one life would be
removed. To make this less predictable than it sounds, we scaled
up everything by a factor of ten and added some randomness.
Thus, although your character could usually survive ten blows,
sometimes they’d hold out for longer and sometimes they’d
capitulate sooner. We did some tuning to make sure that battles
neither ground on too slowly nor ended too quickly to be fun,
and that was that. Everything else—spells, weapons, artifacts—
followed.
As a game mechanic, this worked well. As a representation of
reality, it was somewhat off the mark. Real-life combat with
hand weapons is not a gradual wearing down, a cut here, a nick
there, until eventually someone dies of attrition. Instead, most
blows are blocked, dodged, or parried, and when one does finally
land it either has little effect or it effectively incapacitates the
recipient. In real-world medieval warfare, once someone
suffered a telling wound they could take no further part in the
battle and were fairly certain to die even if no one finished them
off (medical science couldn’t deal with infection). Virtual worlds
set in different periods or having some kind of magic available
in them don’t have to stick with these facts, of course, but they
still need a fiction to rationalize it.
So what other combat systems are available that retain the
gameplay but make more rational sense?
Enhanced Combat Systems
Actually, the MUD1-style approach does make some sense if,
instead of stamina/health/ hit points, armor/shield is used. You
bash at people until their armor comes to pieces, then the next
blow hits their body and they’ve lost. Where characters’ injuries
would heal with rest after a fight, “wounded” armor is repaired.
Life in the Virtual World 533
Of course, to be “realistic” some hits should possibly get
through despite the armor, but even so they might not do fatal
damage, yet fatigue can set in and…blah blah blah.
Combat systems can rapidly get very complex. However, the
same approaches crop up time and time again, not only in
virtual worlds but also in single-player and tabletop games.
Here’s a run-down:
• Reaction and recovery times. Traditional combat is roundbased, in that characters trade blows either in turn or
simultaneously. This is unrealistic, because some weapons
take longer to recover from than others. In the time it takes
you to raise your two-handed sword, I might have been able
to run you through twice with my rapier. Defense also can
have reaction and recovery times: Your heavy shield may
take more damage, but if I switch the point of my attack you
might not be able to bring it into play before I strike.
• One-off attacks. Instead of having fights proceed
automatically after the first blow has been struck, each one
must be performed manually. If I throw my axe at you, I can
hardly do so round after round anyway—it’s a one-off
attack. Special boosted attacks (such as stunning punches or
called shots) are usually treated as one-offs.
• Stances. These are a crude mechanism for trading offense
against defense. If you want to hold out until your allies
come, you increase your defense but pay for it with a
reduced offense. If you want a fight to be over quickly and
can take excess punishment, you raise your offense58 but
your defense suffers as a result.
• Hit location. The damage you do depends on what you hit. A
blow to the leg is not as bad as one to the head. This brings
in the possibility of having hit points for individual body
58 This is frequently known as berserk mode.
534 Chapter 5
parts instead of one value for the whole character. Where a
blow lands depends on the weapon, the characters’ skills, the
relative sizes of the characters, the relative sizes of the body
parts, and (the strategy bit) where the player aimed.
• Damage types. The theory here is that different weapons do
different kinds of damage, to which different armors (or,
combined with a hit location system, different parts of the
body) are differently susceptible. Heads can take less
crushing damage (for example, from a mace) than they can
slashing damage (for example, from a longsword). If you’re
armed with a mace, you should therefore target the head
rather than, say, the midriff. Characters may have special
quirks that make particular blow type/location combinations
unusually effective (for example, a “glass jaw”).
• Wound levels. This approach gets away from the hit points
idea entirely. Wounds are instead rated by category—for
example light, medium, heavy, disabling, destructive. They
compound, so several light wounds make a medium wound,
and so on. Heavy wounds may lead to some loss of
functionality, and disabling wounds will lead to an entire
loss of it. Destructive wounds disable permanently. Thus at
light level your hand may be cut, at medium it may be
gashed, at heavy it may be fractured (you couldn’t write with
it, but you can still hold a sword), at disabling it may be
smashed (you can’t do anything with it), and at destructive
level it might be severed. Different weapons have different
wound profiles for different body parts. A mace may have a
greater chance of disabling a head than does a sword, but a
sword has a (small) chance to decapitate.
• Critical hits. Critical hits incorporate hit location and wound
levels into a hit points system. Combat proceeds in the
traditional “death of a thousand cuts’ style,” but if a
character hits well enough (maybe one time in 20, depending
on the location), they do special damage (usually equivalent
to a disabling or destructive wound). Opponents who
weren’t even breaking into a sweat can suddenly be knocked
Life in the Virtual World 535
unconscious by a well-aimed blow. Thus, players who are
losing a fight might stay rather than flee, in the hope that
they can pull out a critical hit and win.
• Afflictions. These are temporary side effects from blows/
spells that impact on a character’s ability to conduct combat.
If combatants accumulate enough of these, it makes taking
them down a lot easier. A few knocks on the head won’t
necessarily do much damage in themselves, but if they make
you dizzy then that could reduce your ability to parry
something more serious.
• Combat scripts. This approach owes much to pencil-andpaper role-playing games such as En Garde!59. Combat
commands are entered into a queue, and executed in order
simultaneously for each combatant. Combinations of
commands can be prewritten and hot-keyed, so that players
can have time to think rather than relying on first-person
shooter twitch skills. If you have a script effective against a
particular kind of opponent, you can call it up instead of your
default one. Of course, if you don’t but they have one
effective against you, it could be problematical. This
“program your battle” approach was adopted by Star Wars
Galaxies, so it’s likely to become more popular as clones of
this game appear60
.
All these ideas can be (and often are) incorporated into
gloriously complex wholes. The level of detail can become so
great that the rest of the virtual world pales by comparison. Few
virtual worlds with an immensely complicated combat system
avoid being completely dominated by it—Achaea is the bestknown exception.
59 Darryl Hany and Frank Chadwick, En Garde!. Bloomington IL, Games
Designers Workshop, 1975.
60 Yes, I am aware of the name of Episode II of the Star Wars saga….
536 Chapter 5
Although these combat systems are intended for melee, they
can be used for other forms of combat, too. In particular, if
characters control or are crewmembers of fighting vessels
(spacecraft, pirate ships, mechs, and so on) then similar
mechanisms can apply. “Number One: Take out their
hyperdrive.”
As I mentioned earlier, whatever combat system is adopted for
hand-to-hand combat underpins all other forms of combat. If
you’re using a hit points system for sword fighting, then arrows
will also cause characters hit point loss; if you’re using a wound
level system, then damage-causing combat spells will have to
use it too. These secondary combat activities come with their
own issues, of course (arguments over the range and accuracy
of crossbows versus longbows being particularly prone to
starting flame wars). Weapon statistics aside, though, combat
systems face in general a common set of difficulties of which
designers should be aware.
Problems with Combat
There are many social problems with combat, which I shall
come to shortly. First, though, I’ll briefly address some purely
practical concerns.
• Equalizer weapons. Anyone who can flip off a safety catch
and pull a trigger can kill someone else. Highly trained
individuals have a better chance of success, but even
complete novices—children playing with daddy’s
pistol—are in with a good chance. Equalizer weapons
brook no defense except a physical barrier (a good shot is
no better at avoiding bullets than is a poor shot) and the
damage they do tends heavily towards the disabling and
destructive levels. Unless a convincing fiction for why
Life in the Virtual World 537
this isn’t so can be produced61, equalizer weapons take a
lot of the fun out of (combat-oriented) virtual worlds.
• Multiple weapon types. You might find that swords work
best with a hit points system, but muskets work best
using a wounds-based approach. Which do you use?
What do you do when someone using a sword attacks
someone who is using a musket?
• Over-robust defense. How long does it take for a newbie to
kill an old-timer who isn’t putting up a defense?
Typically, it will take much longer than it ought to. The
unarmed veteran stands yawning while the newbie
repeatedly swings their sword; when they hit, the
damage done is merely a fraction of that necessary for
victory. It would be like chopping down a tree if it
weren’t for the fact that you frequently miss the target
completely.
• Concurrent combat. How many creatures can you fight at
once? Do you get the same number of attacks against
each one, or do you have to share them out. Do you
defend equally against all of them, or against some more
than others? How do you stop people from ganging up in
large numbers and beating the stuffing out of their foes?
• Targeting. Do I aim at an individual or at a point in space?
As pointed out in Chapter 2, “How to Make Virtual
Worlds,” there are implementational considerations here.
There’s also the issue of consistency: If I aim an arrow at
a point rather than at a character, then the same solution
should be used for hand-to-hand combat. What about
semi-autonomous weapons, though—for example heatseeking missiles? Are both relative and absolute
targeting systems needed? Who is hit if someone fires a
bullet into a crowd?
61 In a Science Fiction context, this is usually quite easy; in a U.S. Civil War
one it isn’t.
538 Chapter 5
• Area effects. If I throw a grenade or cast a fireball spell,
the result affects everyone in an area. The whole point of
such an attack is to avoid the targeting issue. What
happens, then, if there is someone in the area who is on
your side? Can you be blown up by your own bomb? This
is mainly a problem for graphical worlds, because textual
ones don’t commit to exactly where anyone is standing.
• Twitch. First-person shooter games rely on the skill of
the players. There are two components to this:
experience and twitch. Experience comes from having
done something often enough that you know what to
expect. Twitch comes from having fast reactions, good
manual dexterity, and reasonable vision. Both experience
and twitch transfer to virtual worlds, but neither ought
strictly to be there: The knowledge and speed of a
character shouldn’t be that of the player. Twitch is the
more annoying62, especially when coupled with client
hacks or go-faster macros that can make someone
almost unbeatable. Where should you put the threshold,
though? How many seconds is it reasonable to make
people wait before you process their next combat
command? What effect will lag have on this?
• Combat skills. My character can do things I can’t. What
are these things, and how do they affect combat? If there
are too many or too few, it could send players the wrong
message. What can I do while I’m waiting for the next
combat round? Will it occur instead of or in addition to
my attempt to hit my enemy?
• Disengaging. When fights are handled automatically,
under what conditions do they end? Can I simply run
away? Do you get to hack at me while I do? Can I
62 Only, it should be said, when player characters fight other player
characters. No one but the most die-hard achiever really cares when people
use triggered macros against mobiles or NPCs.
Life in the Virtual World 539
surrender or be captured? If so, how could I escape and
why wouldn’t you just kill me anyway? What happens if
I’m stunned, but not actually dead? Does the fight end
there or does it wait until you strike the killing blow?
There are, of course, many other tedious-but-important
decisions that designers have to make about combat. If the
planned system is deep and complicated, these can take up
disproportionate amounts of time to resolve—not because of
complex interactions between components of the system, but
because designers can become so involved that they try to treat
what are essentially subjective choices objectively.
The main thing is to be able to step back, look at a combat
system, and ask three things:
• Will it work?
• Will it keep players immersed?
• Will it be fun?
If the answer to all these questions is “yes,” go with it.
There is a fourth question we could ask, which on the face of it
looks like it follows from the preceding three. It has deeper
implications of its own, however.
Will players accept it?
To find out why this is important, we need to consider two
notions: opposition and consequences.
Opposition
Conflict concerns opposition. Combat is the most obvious
manifestation of this, but it occurs throughout virtual worlds.
Two people wanting to get through the same turnstile at once
540 Chapter 5
are in conflict; two people aiming for the same job are in
conflict; two merchants pitching to the same potential
customers are in conflict. Combat may be one way to resolve
this conflict, but others tend to work better.
In virtual worlds, conflict is typically categorized in terms of
opposition: Who is in conflict with whom? There are three main
possibilities:
• Player versus Environment (PvE). Players are opposed by
the environment—that is, the virtual world. In a combat
situation, this means player characters (PCs) fight
monsters.
• Player versus Player (PvP). Players are opposed by other
players. In a combat situation, this means PCs can fight
each other.
• Group versus Group (GvG). Players are members of groups
that are in conflict with other groups. In a combat
situation, this means PCs can fight any PCs who are
members of enemy groups but not those who are
members of their own (or a neutral) group63
.
PvP and GvG both assume PvE. GvG is a restricted version of
PvP that will usually operate within other limits too, for reasons
that we shall come to shortly.
The difference between PvE and PvP is central to virtual worlds.
In a strictly PvE environment, PCs can do nothing to other PCs.
In a strictly PvP environment, PCs can do to other PCs whatever
they could do to NPCs or monsters—and potentially a lot more.
63 This is often known as Realm versus Realm (RvR), as it was popularized
under this name in Dark Age of Camelot.
Life in the Virtual World 541
Why the distinction? The answer is, fundamentally,
consensuality: Players don’t want other players doing things to
their character without permission. It’s one thing for a tridentwielding NPC mermaid to attack you, but another thing entirely
for a PC to do it. Hard role-playing virtual worlds solve this
almost trivially: If a player wants to do something to another
player’s character, they ask on an out-of-character channel first.
Other virtual worlds don’t have this luxury.
In a pure PvP world, there is no consensuality: People can try to
mess you about, whether or not you like it; they may run the
risk of being attacked by you, your friends, and perhaps the local
police force too as a result, but they can still try. In a PvE world,
the world itself prevents anyone from messing you about in the
first place (and you from messing them about).
In practice, absolute PvE is untenable. If I want to pick up some
treasure lying on the ground and you get to it first, you have
interfered with my enjoyment of the virtual world and I am
entitled to feel peeved as a result (even more so if you did it
deliberately just to annoy me). Weak forms of PvP such as this
(looting) are always present in multi-player environments,
otherwise there would be no way of knowing they were multiplayer. The question is not whether to have PvP at all, but how
much PvP to have?
The issue of consent becomes blurred here. Plainly, players have
to put up with some degree of interference from other players
merely by virtue of sharing the virtual world with them; in this
sense, entering the virtual world can be regarded as offering
implicit consent that a player is willing to accept the PvP it
supports. Unfortunately for designers, players will still
complain if they are the victims of what they see as a violation
of their character, even if they knew it was a possibility when
they signed up.
542 Chapter 5
The problems are compounded by the fact that different players
have different ideas of what’s okay and what’s not okay. Some
players may think it’s fine that characters can’t walk through
each other, because that’s how reality works; others may dislike
it because it means access to locations through pinch-points (for
example, doors) can be blocked. Then again, some of these
people may relax their point of view in cases where 50
characters have just killed a monster then some non-combatant
with maxed-out running skills races through the mob and steals
whatever reward was dropped. Is a reasonable compromise
solution to allow characters to move through other characters
but at a greatly reduced speed? A gang could still totally
surround someone and continually move around them so that
wherever they were headed there would always be people in the
way.
Some abuses of PvP can be stopped by giving people switches
they can toggle. Generally, players are fine with allowing
strangers to speak to them, but not if this is used as an offensive
weapon (for example, spamming). Thus, some ability to squelch
or gag incoming messages from other characters is often
incorporated into virtual worlds. This works, but it’s not always
realistic (if your character is asleep, then why would one
person’s voice wake them up but not someone else’s?). Stopping
people from spamming in the first place is a better answer, but
one harder to implement.
This idea can be extended to a system of permission levels.
Every character has a disposition to every other character,
ranging from “they don’t exist as far as I’m concerned” to “they
can mind-control me into doing anything they want.” The
default for meeting a complete stranger might perhaps be to
allow communication but no physical contact. Permissions can
be changed either explicitly (using a “change permission”
command) or implicitly (if I offer you my hand to shake, I am
implicitly giving you permission to make formal physical
Life in the Virtual World 543
contact with me). If someone tries to act beyond the permission
level you have set for them, you get the option to turn them
down (“Gilead declines to shake your hand”), to allow the
individual action, or to raise the permission level (“You shake
hands with Gilead”).
The “they don’t exist” permission level raises an interesting
question: If virtual hearing can be selectively filtered, what
about other virtual senses? One very good way to annoy a
player is to follow their character around. In a strongly PvE
world, there’s no way to stop it except by running faster; it feels
like an invasion of privacy (which of course it is), but the virtual
world engine can’t distinguish between friends, stalkers, and
strangers who just happen to be heading the same direction.
Giving players the ability to squelch the images of other
characters would sort the problem out, but again it stresses the
fiction.
Fiction is the main enemy of PvE. If you can do something to
NPCs, why (in the context of the virtual world) can’t you do it to
PCs too? If I create a rogue-class character with high thieving
skills, why can I apply them to any NPC from the lowest to the
highest, but not to a single PC? The real answer is that NPCs
won’t complain but PCs will, but in the virtual world NPCs and
PCs are supposed to be the same thing (characters). Although
it’s possible to make a formal, fictional distinction between
them (for example, NPCs are “normal people” and PCs are
somehow “gifted by the gods”), most virtual worlds that impose
this kind of restraint don’t bother; it’s justified by its existence.
If players moan that this is unrealistic, well, okay, so do they
want to hold a vote on whether to allow PvP?
The extent to which PvP is permitted in virtual worlds is
historically defined by three factors:
544 Chapter 5
• How much freedom to be pains in the asses the
prevailing culture of the majority of players allows.
• What the players say they want.
• What the community management staff can handle.
These are in increasing order of refinement. The real-world
culture of players gives them notions of personal liberty in some
kind of balance with the rights of other people; players are
prepared, in principle, to accept these as the default for the
virtual world. Virtual world culture is unlike real world culture,
though, because of the anonymity that virtual worlds afford.
Some behaviors that would be unwise in the real world because
of the repercussions are “who cares?” issues in virtual worlds.
Therefore, the players will suggest changes. If this is the first
virtual world they’ve played, they’ll immediately think of the
most obvious (but not necessarily the best) solutions; if it’s
everyone’s first virtual world, everyone will think of these same
solutions and it will become a tidal wave of opinion that the live
team will find hard to resist. The changes will be added—some
for better, some for worse—and tinkering will take place until
some kind of consensus is reached.
The tinkering will stop when the noise from players is down to
sufficient levels that the live team can cope with (hopefully
before the end of the open beta). Players will occasionally get
into conflict, but not so frequently that the community
managers can’t sort them out. This degree of PvP becomes the
standard for the virtual world; designers of later virtual worlds
will consider it as a prototype (or even a paradigm) for the
“prevailing culture” of PvP/PvE with which they begin.
This would all be fine except for one thing: Virtual worlds with
more PvP are manifestly more exciting than virtual worlds
without it. There are two reasons for this: Players are more
intelligent than mobiles; players have feelings and mobiles
Life in the Virtual World 545
don’t. If you’re in conflict with an intelligent opponent, it makes
success and failure more meaningful; if you win or lose to an
opponent with emotions, your own emotions are affected.
PvP is “me against you;” PvE is “me against random number
generator.” Which is the more thrilling?
Recognizing this, strongly PvE virtual worlds have tried to
developed ways to have the good bits of PvP (the excitement)
without the bad bits (lack of consensuality). There are basically
two ways to do it: arenas and character flags64. With arenas,
different locations of the virtual world have different PvP rules.
To enter a location where the rules are different from the norm,
you must give your consent. This will either be explicit (you
won’t get into the gladiator pits unless you confirm you
understand what could happen) or implicit (you should expect
to be robbed if you walk into the thieves’ guildhouse). Arenas
don’t have to be small: Huge swathes of Dark Age of Camelot and
Shadowbane are effectively arenas, for example. With character
flags, players elect to be PvP-able, and can therefore interact in
PvP ways with any other players who have flagged their
characters thus.
Neither of these solutions really works. One problem is that
there’s no tangible reason to do it: Why accept full-blown PvP
when you’re no better off than those who don’t? Sure, you get
the extra intangible content that PvP delivers, but while PvPers
are taking kit from each other PvEers are getting new kit from
monsters with less effort. If everyone else has it easy, why not
have it easy yourself?
64 There are several ways to implement both of these. I won’t list them here,
however, because they match pretty well the options for implementing
permanent death that I outline later in this chapter.
546 Chapter 5
The big virtual worlds tried to counter this attitude by devoting
whole incarnations (shards) to PvP, so every character you met
could be PvPed. This didn’t help, though, because players still
advanced faster in the strongly PvE incarnations. PvPers felt
they were taking on more opponents and being penalized for it.
They might have been happier if they were compensated
somehow—for example, by a higher level cap (even if it was only
one level higher than a PvEer could get); the PvEers wouldn’t
have accepted this, though. Besides, a virtual world designed for
PvP has different requirements to one designed for PvE; they’re
similar, but by no means identical65
.
This is where GvG comes in. The idea here is that the virtual
world is divided into sections (the “realms” of RvR), within
which “normal” PvE rules apply. There is a further section to
which these are connected, however, in which PvP rules are in
force (except between characters hailing from the same realm).
There is typically a reward for combat success in this area,
which means that characters who enter it do get an advantage
over those who don’t. Entry into the PvP arena isn’t
mandatory—you don’t have to do it—but you’ll benefit in terms
of increased stats or whatever if you do. The fact that you can
enter with a bunch of guaranteed-trustworthy friends and stay
there for only as long as you want makes it far more palatable.
The term RvR comes from Dark Age of Camelot, but it’s not the
only virtual world to use this approach; indeed, it’s not the only
big, graphical world to do so. Anarchy Online has characters
divided into three groups, with people meeting in PvP areas for
combat. Lineage has clan-like groups called bloodpledges66, which
can conquer castles from one another in (scheduled) sieges;
65 The fact that PvP was basically added as an afterthought didn’t help.
66 Uniquely, Lineage allows only characters of a special class—“prince”—to
lead a bloodpledge.
Life in the Virtual World 547
success here has material results, in that owners of castles get
tax income they can invest in preparing for the next siege.
Shadowbane is trying something similar for western audiences
with its guild versus guild mechanic: PCs can build cities, rule
countries, lead armies against other countries, and so on.
GvG does add some of the features that PvP has but PvE lacks. It
still misses out on an overall point, though, in that in most GvG
virtual worlds it’s impossible for any side actually to be wiped
out. In DAoC, for example, Midgard is never going to conquer
Albion or Hibernia. This is for various reasons, the main two
being content and balance.
Preventing defeat to keep content is understandable. If a virtual
world has been advertising itself as having three realms, if
strategy guides are out in the shops describing the three realms,
if each realm has distinct styles of architecture and dress that
took months to create, then yes, one realm’s annihilation of
another would be a mite inconvenient.
Balance is not a good reason to keep realms from beating on one
another too much. Strictly speaking, it doesn’t matter if one side
completely conquers another as long as the resulting empire
can split through civil war67. If for content reasons you don’t
want realms to be obliterated, though, the aim should still be
equilibrium rather than balance. It doesn’t matter if one side can
win some of another side’s home territory, so long as it becomes
increasingly harder to do so the more they advance. It’s like two
fencers dueling with bungee ropes tied to their waists: There
comes a point when the elastic pulling on the better fencer is so
strong that the worse fencer can win and push them back. They
67 If there’s no chance of a fight-back, players on the losing side may find the
temptation to quit irresistible. Indeed, even if there is they may still leave in a
huff.
548 Chapter 5
don’t even have to have the same strength elastic—equilibrium
will eventually be reached.
A problem with GvG combat is what to do if one or more sides
give up and don’t get involved in it. Does the virtual world save
them, by not allowing enemies to pass a frontier? Does the live
team save them, stepping in to avoid putting all that beautiful
elf artwork to waste? Or does the opposition sweep through in
an orgy of destruction and pillage?
The main problem with all these PvE solutions to PvP is that
there are two levels of consensuality at work here:
Consensuality in principle, and consensuality in fact. The
former is when you accept that something may happen to you,
but you’re not necessarily going to like it when it does happen
and it had better not happen too often; the latter says that you
expect something will happen to you and therefore won’t be too
bothered when it does. Part of PvP’s appeal comes from the
assumption that a foe has accepted the principle but won’t
easily accept the fact unless they win; this is equally true for
attackers and defenders—neither will be pleased if they lose,
but both will be over the moon if they win. In PvE-based PvP
solutions, consensuality is by fact; in full-blown PvP, it’s by
principle. Unless players are prepared to accept the principle,
they’ll have to make do with the fact.
Unfortunately, they may accept the principle but still have a
justifiable grievance. This is best illustrated by what has come
to be known as Marian’s tailor problem68. If a rich virtual world
offers characters careers in both non-adventuring and
adventuring, how are the non-adventurers protected from the
adventurers? Marian’s character is a tailor because Marian likes
68 Named for the person who first identified it, Marian Griffith. See
http://www.kanga.nu/FAQs/ MUD-Dev-L/30.html.
Life in the Virtual World 549
creating clothes for other characters and the opportunities for
interaction that this affords. She understands that there are
other players who prefer hacking monsters (and each other) to
pieces with sharp weapons. She understands and accepts that
other players may on occasion attack her. What she doesn’t
accept is that they can do so indiscriminately, on a whim. She is
completely unable to defend herself, so will always lose. Is her
only recourse to take up arms? If so, what’s the point of putting
in tailoring as a career if everyone is eventually forced to
become a fighter anyway?
The issue of opposition (PvE, PvP, GvG) is wider than combat,
but combat nevertheless is the litmus test that decides whether
a virtual world “is” PvE or PvP. If you can attack other player
characters, it’s PvP; if you can’t, it’s PvE. There may be other
PvP elements— for example, casting nasty spells on characters,
or nice ones on the mobiles they’re fighting—but combat is the
issue that tips the scales. Who you fight, however, is only part of
the issue. The arguments really begin in considering what
happens if you lose.
Consequences
Different locations have different risks associated with them. A
PvP arena, for example, has a greater risk associated with it
than a marketplace; a dragon’s lair comes with a greater risk
than, raccoon’s.
Players like to know their risks in advance. They like to be able
to tell by looking whether or not they can beat a potential foe in
combat. Some virtual worlds helpfully color-code PCs and
mobiles to make it easier to check them out. Although in real life
you might not be able to tell a martial arts expert from anyone
else merely by looking, in virtual worlds you often can. If there’s
no fiction explaining why you might be able to do so, well, you
still probably can.
550 Chapter 5
Risk makes things exciting, but it’s only part of the equation.
Equally important are the stake (what you stand to lose) and the
prize (what you stand to win).
In virtual world combat, what you stand to win can be anything
the designer chooses. There are constraints imposed by other
areas of the design (for example, the economy) and by the
combat system itself (high-risk or high-stake fights should have
high-stake rewards), but this still leaves a lot of leeway.
So, what do you stand to lose?
This is harder, because it must be something that you already
have. It should also be commensurate with the risk and what
you stand to win. It’s okay to favor the player statistically,
because otherwise characters will not advance. In real life, if you
stand to win $10 on the toss of a coin, then $5 is a fair stake. In
virtual world combat, it’s like you get four tosses of the coin to
win $10 for a $5 stake—the odds are stacked so you’re generally
going to win. However, (in this example) one time in 16 you’re
going to lose. If it’s only $5, who cares? The problem with virtual
world combat is the size of the stake.
Fights can have three outcomes: victory, inconclusiveness,
defeat. Most fights with mobiles end in victory; most fights with
characters (where PvP is allowed) end inconclusively; a very
small number of fights against whatever opponent end in
defeat.
Defeat can mean many things—capture, injury, loss of
possessions, loss of prestige, loss of time, and so on. For mobiles
it means death. Does it mean death for PCs?
As with PvP, character death is not entirely a combat issue: It
can occur in other ways, too. In the real world, most people die
through disease, old age, or in accidents. The number one cause
Life in the Virtual World 551
of peacetime death among British men under the age of 35 is
suicide69. Death happens to everyone in the real world, combat
or no combat.
Virtual worlds, however, are not real ones. Characters don’t
“have to die.”
Old age in virtual worlds can traditionally be eliminated without
the need for any explanation because only very long-term
characters would ever qualify for it. Disease and illness, while
okay as a temporary inconvenience70, also don’t have to be
anything more than that; this is just as well, because players
would seethe with rage if their characters were merely confined
to bed with influenza, let alone if they were dying of something
incurable.
This leaves death by accident (deliberate or otherwise) and
death by being killed.
In virtual worlds, characters are in theory physically capable of
doing acts that would, in the real world, result in their death.
They can jump off cliffs, stand in bonfires, swallow plutonium,
throw a grenade short of its blast radius…. The virtual world can
of course be crafted so as to prevent such events from ever
occurring, albeit at a cost in realism. If someone in full armor is
paddling a coracle across a wide river and they decide to light a
fire, they really should expect to drown. Nevertheless, this can
be prevented—for example, by not making coracles ignite while
people are in them. It can be programmed round.
69 http://www.doh.gov.uk/newsdesk/inside/sept2002/
70 Characters can catch colds in some virtual worlds, passing them on to one
another and to mobiles.
552 Chapter 5
Death by being killed can’t be programmed round. You stick a
mobile full of holes and it dies; a mobile sticks your character
full of holes and it also dies—it wouldn’t make sense otherwise.
Is it the same kind of death, though?
When a mobile dies, it ceases to exist. It is permanently gone.
Some reinitialized version may appear at its spawning site after
a period, or when the virtual world resets; it’s not the same
mobile, though—it has none of the experience or possessions it
had when it died. At best, it’s a clone.
Never-to-return death is called permanent death, or PD71. It’s the
single most controversial subject in virtual worlds.
Permanent Death
PD is not the same as PvP. PvP means that one PC can do things
to another PC that the latter didn’t agree to; PD means that if a
PC suffers death, it is consigned to oblivion. When PvP and PD
are combined the result is player killing (PKing): One PC can
directly cause the PD of another PC72. Players often use PD and
PvP as euphemisms for PKing, but the distinction is there and is
very important. Many of the benefits that advocates of PKing
cite are primarily due to PD; some of the strongest objections to
PKing are due to its PvP element, rather than to PD.
Like PvP, PD has consent issues. These are not, however, with
other players; rather, they are with the virtual world itself. As
71 Some old-timers prefer the expansion persona death. Exceedingly oldtimers might even use player death, but at least we’re trying to break the
habit.
72 Given that so few large-scale virtual worlds have PD in them nowadays, it’s
becoming common practice to use “PKing” to refer to unjustified PvP
combat. I, however, shall be using it in its traditional context, because
otherwise there isn’t a handy term to describe the action of committing PvP
with PD.
Life in the Virtual World 553
our Chapter 4 analysis of virtual world physics showed, players
are normally quite happy for the virtual world to model the real
one, because it reinforces their immersive experience. In the
real world, though, none of a virtual world’s players have had
the experience of dying.
Because the whole aim of virtual worlds is to bring the
character and the player together as a persona, players will
routinely consider their character to be themselves. On the face
of it, then, their character’s PD would thus be like their own
death in reality. In practice, players at the persona level of
immersion don’t feel anywhere near as bad as players who are
approaching it, because they have the duality of
player/character sorted out. The character has died, but the
player is the character, and the player (clearly) hasn’t died,
therefore the character hasn’t either. The character can be
reborn in a new manifestation, much as a PD mobile respawns
from scratch. It’s not a pleasant experience—it’s like losing
three months’ work while trying to back up your computer’s
hard drive73; frustrating, but not the end of the world. Players
who are near to total immersion but aren’t quite there will
suffer the most, because not only do they lose the work, but they
also feel they’ve lost a dear friend. The word “gutted” is
frequently used to describe the experience, but even that
doesn’t come close to how bad it can feel. Unlike the death of a
real person, though, virtual PD grief can be overcome relatively
quickly. Players usually can rationalize what has happened and
come to terms with it after giving it some thought; the
emotional impact is strong, but at an intellectual level all that’s
gone is a chunk of over-anthropomorphized computer data. If
they can cope with the emotional hit, the intellectual gain can
more than make up for the loss. If they can cope with the
emotional hit….
73 Speaking as someone who has experienced both.
554 Chapter 5
There is a quantitative difference between the emotion felt at
losing a character to the virtual world and that of losing it to
another PC. In the former case, players will be incredibly
annoyed but will rapidly conclude that it was either their own
fault or the result of incredible bad luck74. In the latter case,
though, they’ll be angry, too75. For long-term PKers (as opposed
to newbies), if they started the fight and got killed, then their
self-image will fall even lower than it was before. For the victim
of a PKer (or, worse, a pack of them), there is the sense of
unfairness that the heavily armed attacker will have selected a
victim on the basis of their likelihood of winning, and therefore
the odds were stacked from the beginning. Unprovoked attacks
cause enough indignation to blow an industrial
indignationometer.
Consent is an issue. Emotional attachment is an issue. Wasted
effort is an issue. None, however, are the issue. The issue is that
people don’t like losing. PD amounts to a statement of total,
that’s-all-folks loss. There’s no wheedling out of it; it’s final.
That’s what people dislike about it. Whether this is merely a
passing phase due to virtual worlds’ comparative immaturity or
a permanent situation rooted deep in the human psyche we
shall examine presently.
For the moment, the important thing to come out with from all
this is the sense that PD is not popular. People who fear it are as
74 There may be allegations that members of the live team rigged the
random-number generator, too. This is mundane conspiracy-theory claptrap,
leavened only by the fact that sometimes the live teams of some virtual
worlds with PD really do tinker with the code to harm (or, more likely,
protect) particular PCs.
75 Jessica Mulligan likens PD at the hands of another player to rape, which
isn’t quite as over-the-top as it sounds. You’ll find out why if you stay awake
in Chapter 6, “It’s Not a Game, It’s a ….”
Life in the Virtual World 555
much—if not more—against it than people to whose characters
it has actually happened. Returning to the gambling metaphor,
if PD is the potential result of losing a fight, players are
wagering a very, very high stake.
Such a stake is constant across all combat, because in a PD
world it’s the only thing a player can bet. Because of this, the
risks of losing must be small or the rewards for winning must
be high (or both). Unfortunately, this can make matters even
worse because it means PD actually occurs only very
infrequently. Players aren’t expecting it to happen, therefore
when it does, there’s the shock to contend with, too.
In real-life gambling, if a risk looks too great you can usually
pull out of the bet and lose only a fraction of your stake. In
virtual worlds, it should always be possible to cut your losses
and flee from a fight. There may be tangible consequences for
the partial defeat, but the main loss will probably be your pride.
Only if you decided to stay (for example, because your opponent
looks like they’re going to die sooner than you are) would you
risk losing your whole stake.
PD is not appropriate for all virtual worlds. It would be
ridiculous in most non-game contexts, and doesn’t add greatly
to games without combat, either. For virtual worlds where nonPCs can (and regularly do) suffer PD, though, it has serious
contributions to make.
Approaches to Permanent Death
Let’s assume for the moment that a designer has decided they
want permanent death to feature in their virtual world. The
reasons why they might (or might not) make such a decision
we’ll go into shortly, but for the moment we’ll suppose they’ve
done it. What are the various ways it can be incorporated into a
design?
556 Chapter 5
It all depends on how you intend to ensure that a death is “fair.”
Here are the classic ways to do it (most of which also can be
applied to PvP):
• Unmoderated. If your character dies, that’s it. There’s no
comeback: It’s gone. PK versions of such worlds will
frequently descend into barbaric slashfests, although this
is not inevitable: If fleeing is not unlikely to succeed and
the player base is too small to support gang warfare, an
unmoderated world can thrive (and with a vibrancy it’s
hard to match elsewhere).
• Post-moderated. PCs can appeal to administrators to be
resurrected if they feel they were harshly treated. The
classic reason is because of communications difficulties
(lag, line noise, cosmic rays, whatever) that prevented a
character from fleeing at a critical moment. The
administrators will look at logs to determine whether the
player has a case. In worlds with PKing, there may be a
justification system in place to ensure that high-level
characters don’t wipe out low-level ones
indiscriminately, but they can nevertheless avenge
intolerable acts (for example, you stole my stuff). Again,
administrators would normally enforce this on appeal.
This approach also works, but is only sound in smallscale virtual worlds that can log absolutely everything
(that is, textual ones).
• World-moderated. The idea here is to implement a
justification system by tracking player actions.
Unfortunately, it can only ever track tangible actions: If
someone insults your ancestry and you hit them, the
virtual world will flag you as the aggressor. There are
several ways to have a virtual world moderate PvP and
PKing, none of which ever really work: Karma systems
and NPC justice systems are the most popular. Grudge
systems are the most interesting, because they allow
Life in the Virtual World 557
slights to be traded: If I hit you, you get a grudge against
me that you might sell to someone else who can beat five
kinds of Hades out of me. This makes people think twice
about performing unprovoked attacks, but has the
disadvantage that it’s blatantly unrealistic.
• Player-moderated. These approaches don’t work either, at
least not yet. Here, the decision as to whether a character
has done wrong is made by players, not by the virtual
world (although the world will act on what the players
have said—for example, by making NPC shopkeepers
charge more to people with low reputations). In player
justice systems, there may or may not be NPC enforcers
available to make sure that justice is done. The problem
with player-moderated systems is that they are too easily
undermined by groups of players acting in concert. If 100
players say that some random other player is a thief, that
player is going to have a problem clearing their name.
There are experiments under way to circumscribe this
problem. Sure, it works for eBay, but eBay doesn’t have
10% of its user base trying to screw it over for fun.
• Opt-in. This is the classic response of designers who
disabled PD or PvP and then came to regret it. They reenable it, but only in certain arenas or between
consenting duelists. It fails to deliver any of the major
benefits of either PD or PvP. If your virtual world has no
PvP or PD, you’ve already handed it over to people who
don’t want it; adding it is not going to make them happy,
nor will it attract people who do want it.
• Opt-out. This is an approach that ought to work but
which has yet to find favor. The idea is that by default PD
and/or PvP applies (moderated using one of the other
approaches) but characters can flick a “pacifist switch” to
opt out—some kind of “holy person” fiction covers for it.
They pay for this security by having a lower level cap
than characters for whom the gloves are off. While this
seems fair to non-pacifists, it’s deeply unpopular among
558 Chapter 5
pacifists: They want the benefits of not getting killed but
don’t agree that they should give up anything to do so. If
higher level content is available, they should have access
to it.
• Inevitable, but distant. Characters have a shelf-life, after
which they die of old age, retire, or otherwise cease to
exist except as a memory. This form of PD serves only
one purpose: To force people to start afresh instead of
staying on with the same, stale character indefinitely.
Unfortunately, as mentioned earlier, even at accelerated
timescales it would probably take several real years for a
character to “die,” and guaranteed impending death
would dishearten everyone—even newbies.
The preceding is the main approaches to PD. They all treat dead
PCs as “gone forever,” resurrection being limited to external
factors such as bugs, rule violations, and the occasional act of
gross favoritism by members of the live team.
Most virtual worlds don’t go for PD, however; this is fairly clear
from the fact that it’s PD that has the acronym, not “NPD”
(which is just “death”). In non-PD virtual worlds, PCs do die in
combat (and perhaps in other ways) but it’s not the same kind of
death that the cookie-cutter NPCs suffer. What exactly it is
instead, however, varies.
Alternatives to Permanent Death
Let’s assume now that a designer76 has decided they don’t want
permanent death to feature in their virtual world. If there’s no
NPC death either (because of world’s genre or application),
that’s it, end of story, skip to the next section.
76 Or, more likely, a designer’s boss.
Life in the Virtual World 559
If there is NPC or (in most cases) monster death, the designer
has to find some non-PD equivalent for PCs. If your character
fights a monster and loses in the worst possible way, what
happens to it?
Okay, well the big mistake is to say the character dies. It doesn’t
die. If it did die, that would be PD77. One of the absolute, defining
features of death is that the dead don’t recover from it78
.
Whatever it is that happens to the character, if it can continue
its existence afterward, then it hasn’t died.
The words “kill” and “death” have all kinds of powerful
emotional connotations that often in no way resemble how the
concept is handled in a non-PD world. This isn’t necessarily a
problem, but it becomes one when designers transfer too many
of those connotations to something that doesn’t merit them.
Sadly, this is something they are wont to do when discussing
alternatives to PD.
Merely labeling something as “death” doesn’t make it a serious
matter. In many cases (particularly in large-scale graphical
worlds), the penalties for losing a fight are so lax that even the
word “hurt” would overstate them. When I act as a consultant to
in-development virtual worlds that don’t have PD, I insist that
the designers don’t use the word “death” or “kill” in relation to
PCs. This concentrates the mind on the mechanics and not the
ideal. If someone says “when a mobile kills a PC,” I’ll correct
them based on how they plan on handling it; unhappily, more
77 At least in the context of the virtual world it would. Strictly speaking,
characters can never “die” because they can never “live;” nevertheless, in the
same way that real-world people mapped into the virtual world are
characters, the real-world concept of death mapped into the virtual world is
PD.
78 At least they don’t in the physical universe. People with religious views
may differ on this point in the absolute sense.
560 Chapter 5
often than not this means “when a mobile wuss-slaps a PC.” It
may be sarcastic, but it leaves them in no doubt as to what
they’re actually talking about, rather than what they thought
they were talking about.
Okay, so let’s look at the usual ways that non-PD virtual worlds
handle what they call “death” but isn’t:
• Resurrection. PCs that die come back to life, perhaps in a
worse condition than they were in at the point of death,
perhaps not. As with most forms of death evasion, in PvP
worlds the exact penalties may vary depending on
whether the PC was the aggressor.
• Insurance. This is a form of resurrection that PCs pay for
in advance. It’s popular among Science Fiction worlds
such as Federation II, but can work in Fantasy ones too. In
DragonsGate, for example, players can accumulate
“favors” by doing quests “for the gods,” which can be
translated into resurrections. Sometimes, insurance
works on a “save game” principle, whereby resurrection
is only to the state the character was at when it was last
insured; this means characters will regularly pay for new
insurance, thus giving the economy a healthy cash sink.
• Ghosts and spirits. The fiction here is that PCs’ bodies die,
but their spirit lives on. The spirit is usually separated
from the body (appearing at some local last-save point or
generic shrine) and has to find it to affect a resurrection.
In the meantime, other PCs or mobiles can loot the body
and steal the “dead” PC’s gear. Losing a fight therefore
means a time penalty (you have to find the body) and
possible tangible loss (if people loot it).
• Realm of the dead. This is a variation on the ghosts and
spirits approach. “Dead” characters appear in some other
dimension (that is, they’re teleported to a set of locations
disconnected from the main part of the virtual world).
They have to find/fight their way out, whereupon their
Life in the Virtual World 561
soul returns to their body and they’re back to life again.
Their body has taken the opportunity to recover from its
massive system failure, too. Again, it’s mainly a time
penalty to stop people who have just been “killed” in a
battle from immediately wading back into the fray.
• Left for dead. Although PCs are clever enough to know
when a mobile is faking death, mobiles are universally
stupid. They think that the moment a PC hits the deck
it’s Game Over. However, the PC is only stunned or
unconscious or winded or otherwise wuss-slapped, and
will be right as rain in no time!
• It wasn’t a fight to the death. This is absolutely fine in PvP
situations, where it doesn’t really stretch the imagination
too much to envisage duelers or gladiators who
honorably fail to deliver the final death blow of a fight. It
makes no sense against mobiles though unless the
mobiles also accrue the benefits of it.
• Inheritance. Lefty gets killed. He really is PD gone.
However, he happened to have a relative to whom
ownership of all his kit passes. The relative is very close
in looks, skills, and experience to the character who just
died. Welcome, Lefty II! This works best in materialistic
virtual worlds that define characters by their possessions
more than by their attributes. The character may be
nominally dead, but the player is no worse off for it. This
is perhaps the best of these alternatives to PD because it
offers some opportunity for players to start new
characters when their old ones are wuss-slapped. Instead
of Lefty III, you might go for Leftina instead (not that
many players do—they treat it basically as resurrection).
The fiction is basically sound, too, although it’s invariably
stretched so thin as to be transparent.
• No believable fictional explanation. Characters who “die”
bounce back with whatever time, movement, kit,
experience points, and skills that the designers decide.
There’s no sound rationalization, they just do. Asheron’s
562 Chapter 5
Call 2 with its progressive attitude that penalties for
death in virtual worlds are “outdated” is the jawdropping epitome of this approach.
All these are alternatives to PD. However, the concept of actual
PD is surprisingly incomprehensible to many players, who can’t
quite bring themselves to believe that there are virtual worlds
in which death really does mean death; occasionally, therefore,
some of the preceding will be described as being PD even
though they’re not. I’ve read reviews that described an
insurance system as being PD, presumably on the grounds that
your character is actually not there for a short period before
rematerializing.
There also seems to be a good deal of denial among designers of
virtual worlds. I’ve sat in on meetings where designers agreed
among themselves to go with a PD system, then started to think
of ways they could get around it (“Maybe we could have like a
soul ring, that stores a character’s essence and…”).
As a designer, either you want or you don’t want PD in your
virtual world. If you do, bite the bullet and have it. Don’t argue
that what you have instead is “as good as” PD, or that it “hurts
just as much as” PD; it isn’t and it doesn’t unless it is PD. If you
don’t want PD, that’s your call; don’t refer to the effects of a
wuss-slap as “death,” though, or you’ll be perceiving
consequences that aren’t there.
It may seem from the preceding that I’m a die-hard PD fan
unable to move with the times. Actually, it’s not so much that
I’m a fan of PD as that I’m an unfan of the alternatives as they
are often used—that is, with complete ignorance. In many
cases, PD should indeed rightly be off the agenda; I have no
Life in the Virtual World 563
problem with that79. What infuriates me is when people put up
ill-considered alternatives to PD without addressing the
consequences, setting unwise precedents that the equally badly
informed designers who follow slavishly copy.
If you want PD, you must understand what it buys you, and what
you have to pay for it. Likewise, if you don’t want PD then you
also must understand what that buys you, and what you have to
pay for it. If the consequences of PD are too hideous to
contemplate, fair enough, go for non-PD; however, if you do so
you should make sure you can address the consequences of not
having PD, too, or you may end up with something equally
hideous.
So, let’s take a look at these consequences.
The Unfortunate Consequences of
Permanent Death
People really do not like it when their character dies. That’s
really do not like it. Not only will they say they’ll leave if it
happens, some of them actually will leave. There’s ample
evidence of this from virtual worlds that launched with PD but
toned it down in the face of player opposition. You can take
steps to minimize this—keep the incidence of PD low but the
awareness of its possibility high—but it’ll still happen. Even
non-PD PvP was softened in early flagship graphical worlds.
People don’t like to lose, they don’t like to suffer, and they
especially don’t like other people making them suffer.
It’s easy to dismiss this as a short-term thing, and that once
players “mature enough” to see the benefits that PD brings they
79 At the time of writing, my last two consultancy outings involved virtual
worlds where PD—or any D, come to that—would be wildly inappropriate.
564 Chapter 5
will be willing to tolerate it; there’s informal evidence to support
this position from long-term textual worlds with PD. However,
even supposing that it’s correct, this still doesn’t help. Virtual
worlds rely on newbies for their survival. Newbies are, by
definition, immature (in their appreciation of virtual worlds).
Given the choice between a virtual world that they can explore
in complete safety and one where it seems a moment’s lapse of
concentration could undo weeks of play, well, they’ll take the
safe one, thank you very much.
Ah, the argument continues, but in time people will come to
realize that such virtual worlds are unsatisfying, and, although
they may be newbies to my virtual world, they won’t be newbies
to virtual worlds in general. They will be mature enough to give
PD a chance. Well, perhaps, yes, but remember that people view
all virtual worlds in the context of the virtual world with which
they started. If they began with a virtual world that had no PD,
they’ll judge your virtual world from that standpoint80. It had
better be a damned good one if they’re to give it a try.
Even if they are “mature enough” for PD, their attitude is
analogous to the way that people in the real world view public
transport. I like the idea of public transport, so do you, so does
everyone else. I like it because the more that other people travel
by bus, the roads will be less congested for me to travel by car.
So do you, so does everyone else. We’re all in favor of it, but only
for other people. So it is with PD: It’s fine when it happens to
you, but not so fine when it happens to me.
Another issue is that PD is regularly confused with PvP. Players
of Ultima Online didn’t like it when their characters were
attacked by large numbers of PCs operating in well co-ordinated
gangs. It was unfair: These PKers were ruining the game. That’s
80 This is why precedents are so important.
Life in the Virtual World 565
true, it was unfair and they were ruining the game; but it’s a
PvP issue, not a PD issue—those “PKers” weren’t actually PKing.
Nevertheless, because PvP and PD are so often combined to
such disastrous effect, in many players’ minds they’re two sides
of the same coin. Most players today haven’t even experienced
PD but are categorically opposed to it.
So, PD has an (not entirely unjustified) image problem which
means players will probably stay away. Furthermore, if it occurs
too often or too unexpectedly, so that players feel it’s either
arbitrary or unavoidable, even those players who came may
decide to go. This is why developers of virtual worlds are rarely
keen on PD.
There is, however, another reason why PD (in combination with
PvP) is off-putting: The need for a very strong elder game.
Players who manage to survive to “the end” need something to
occupy them fully. If the designers don’t provide it, they’ll make
their own entertainment. This may well take the form of
employing their finely honed combat skills (possibly using a
secondary character) to attack other PCs. A single, highly skilled
killer can literally empty a small virtual world of other players,
and it’s very hard for administrators to stop them. After all,
they’re not exactly cheating. The fact that they want to protect
the integrity of their rank by ensuring no “undeserving”
characters reach it is, to them, incidental. For larger virtual
worlds, these people would probably lead mobs rather than
work alone, but the effect is the same: Other players quit to
avoid the intimidation. As Chapter 3 pointed out, there is often a
place in virtual worlds for small numbers of players of this type.
Beyond a certain threshold, though, they can rapidly bring a
virtual world to its knees. If you let fun PKing become your
virtual world’s elder game, prepare for the worst.
566 Chapter 5
Despite all this, PD nevertheless has a lot going for it. Quite how
much is best shown by considering what happens when it’s
taken away.
The Unfortunate Consequences of NonPermanent Death
Let’s imagine what the real world would be like if the
philosophers of ancient Greece had discovered the secret of
eternal life. If you take your daily dose of elixir, you won’t age
and will live forever. How would today’s society be different?
Well, it’s almost impossible to say, but one thing is for sure:
Alexander the Great would still be in charge.
In virtual worlds, this is called sandboxing—the people who are
first to positions of power get to keep them. There is no
opportunity for change. Ensigns on the Star Trek spaceship
Voyager (which was transported millions of light years from
home) did not have a great career path no matter how able they
were.
With no permanent death, virtual worlds consist of relentless
progress toward either “the end” or some point of equilibrium
(where the losses from whatever replaces permanent death
balance the gains accrued in between such pseudo-deaths).
When players feel they aren’t advancing, they can become very
frustrated; most virtual worlds without permanent death
therefore endeavor to keep losses lower than gains. This keeps
players’ sense of achievement intact until they reach “the end,”
although a side effect is that it devalues what that achievement
means: If anyone can plod to success, no one successful gets
bragging rights.
What happens at “the end” is also problematical. “The end” is
when highly experienced (or highly plodding) players run out of
Life in the Virtual World 567
content. Ideally, these characters should be retired and new
ones started. That, however, is too much like PD for many
players to stomach. Remorting is a way of restarting with an
existing character (as a different class), but it’s a cop-out that
really only delays the inevitable.
This irresistible rise problem is endemic in DikuMUDs.
Eventually, high-level players will either join their virtual
world’s administrators or find something else to do with their
lives. Interestingly, this may involve starting a new DikuMUD of
their own. Thus, although it may be bad for an individual
DikuMUD that players leave when they run out of content, it
could be good for the species of DikuMUDs as a whole.
This isn’t possible for players of large-scale graphical virtual
worlds; it would be like a big-shot movie director telling a
complaining member of an audience that if they don’t like what
they see on the screen they should go away and make their own
movie instead. That said, there are many graphical worlds being
developed by people who cut their teeth playing EverQuest, so in
a sense the same well-worn path is being taken.
Of course, if you’re a business that makes its money running an
individual virtual world, you may not want your players to leave
and set up ones in competition. Therefore, you need to
encourage them to stay. The only solution not involving PD is to
create new content, which is (as ever) expensive.
There is theory behind this, which anecdotal evidence from
EverQuest suggests has some basis. The idea is that when new
high-level content is added, it benefits not only the players for
whom it was created, but also those that follow. It’s called the
trickledown effect, although it’s perhaps a misnomer in that
content doesn’t trickle down so much as characters trickle up to
meet it. Nevertheless, the point is that although it may seem
that content is being added only for the benefit of a few very
568 Chapter 5
powerful players, eventually all players will benefit from it as
they reach that level. It’s like building a road as people walk
along it: The ones at the back of the line eventually get to use
what was created for the people at the front of the line.
It sounds all well and good, but it’s not without flaws:
• To newbies, the finishing post looks very, very distant. It
may indeed look so distant to some that they decide not
to bother embarking on the journey.
• Newbies (and not-so-newbies) feel they can never catch
up. The people in front will always be in front, and there’s
no way to overtake them.
• The horizon advances at the speed you approach it.
You’re a donkey following a carrot on a stick.
It’s like running a city marathon. You know from the start that
it’s a very long way, and not for the unfit or faint-hearted. You
won’t beat any of the people who started two hours before you,
so you can only judge your performance at a personal level. Oh,
and the course keeps lengthening, so you’re not actually ever
going to finish anyway.
In a virtual world with no PD, you only get to experience a body
of content once. After you’ve consumed it, you rise in power
such that the old content is no longer a challenge, so you go on
to the next content. Aside from the fact that this is a huge waste
of resources (players will repeat content many more times if
they can come at it from different angles, for example, with
different characters or different strategies), it’s not necessarily
even the content as it was originally formulated. When greater
monsters are created, greater treasure must also be created as a
reward. Any weapons, armor, or other kit that’s better than
what a character has will be retained, and their old equipment
sold on to characters at a lower level. These, in turn, will sell
their old stuff to yet lower-level characters, and so on.
Life in the Virtual World 569
The result of this is that characters often have better gear than
they ought to have for their level of experience. They can better
tackle the adversities they face, and when victorious the
rewards they obtain may be less useful than what they have
already. Thus, they’ll sell those on, too. It’s a form of inflation
that devalues objects at lower content levels.
The situation is not as bad as it sounds, in that there are more
characters at lower levels than at higher ones and therefore
they can’t all have overpowered equipment. However, it’s also
worse because of deliberate twinking. Formally, twinked
characters81 are ones that have acquired equipment that they
couldn’t ever have obtained through the normal channels; in
EQ’s case, this means killing monsters and trading with other
characters. Although strictly speaking even trading to buy a
better sword than you “should” have is a form of twinking, most
people use the term to mean using your own high-level
character to obtain goods for your low-level character.
Twinking isn’t necessarily bad for a virtual world’s economy
(especially if objects can wear out), but it throws a dark shadow
over content. Newbies who are twinked by a high-level stranger
are often very impressed; they’ll like the virtual world much
more as a result. However, newbies who don’t have a higherlevel benefactor are resentful of people who do—especially
when those people don’t seem to see anything wrong with it. It’s
like a Hollywood actor researching a role as a homeless person,
who turns up at a soup kitchen, takes a bowl of soup, then
produces a freshly baked baguette and some croutons to eat
with it. That soup was meant for a homeless person, not a
Hollywood actor; similarly, newbies who see experienced
players consuming their content aided by luxuries no one else
81 Or twinks.
570 Chapter 5
has will feel resentful. No amount of “I worked hard for this” is
going to mollify them. It exposes the newbie experience as
worthless.
Even at higher levels, it’s an issue. If you experience content
with a twink (or otherwise overpowered character), you have an
easier time of it than the designers planned. It’s like taking a
calculator into a mental arithmetic test: You’ll finish sooner and
get all the answers right, but you won’t learn as much. Players
with twinks won’t necessarily see anything wrong with this, of
course, because in their eyes they already sat the test once
without a calculator, their main character. However, that
assumes that only the answers are important; in terms of
immersion, how you answer can be more telling than what you
answer.
Twinking happens in virtual worlds with PD, but not to the
same extent. This is because PD usually involves the total loss of
all the kit you had with you when you died. If you get eaten by a
dragon, the dragon gets whatever of your stuff survived; if your
new character wants it, they’ll have to take it off the dragon. It’s
not inherent to PD that object loss on death is implemented, but
it usually is because it makes more sense. Virtual worlds
without PD have moved slowly in the opposite direction,
ensuring that even if you do “die” you won’t lose certain bound
items to looters, lessening the impact of “death” even more. In
some virtual worlds, you don’t lose anything tangible at all if a
monster “kills” you. The trickle-down effect requires that new
content be added. The highest-level characters, for whom it is
intended after all, will invariably want input on this. It’s very
tempting to listen to them. Power gamers82 are an excellent
resource for regular computer games, and their opinions on
82 This term hails from the board games community, hence players are
“gamers.”
Life in the Virtual World 571
possible changes will regularly be sought. Discussions on web
sites devoted to Sid Meier’s Civilization III83 have led directly to
several code modifications released in the official patches.
Unfortunately, however, in a virtual world where people can
plod to the top without exhibiting the slightest sign of
imagination, it is not guaranteed that the players of highestlevel characters are power gamers; they could just be people
with a lot of time on their hands. If you do listen to your
highest-level players in determining content issues, make sure
you can distinguish between the ones who have good ideas and
the ones who merely think they do.
Note that these aren’t reasons why your virtual world should
have PD; rather, they’re the situations you must tackle if you
decide not to have it.
One of the biggest things you’ll need to decide is what to do
with the fiction. I listed earlier the more popular ways of
explaining how come PCs recover from mortal blows, but the
problem doesn’t stop there. In particular, if you want a rational
fiction then you’ll need to produce some reason why the mobiles
that the characters kill don’t recover when they die and why
they themselves don’t go up levels when they “kill” characters84
.
Note that saying nothing may be better than saying something
unconvincing, as at least it leaves open the possibility that a
plausible fiction exists; if you pass off some cock-and-bull
nonsense instead, you’re stuck with it85
.
It is particularly hard to reconcile non-death with historical or
licensed worlds. When authenticity is a selling point, the
83 Mainly http://www.civfanatics.com/ and http://apolyton.net/civ3.
84 Actually, in some virtual worlds they do. It’s uncommon, though.
85 This is especially bad for virtual worlds with a story arc, but they don’t
have the option of leaving it unsaid, either. If you’re promoting story, you
can’t be selective about it and expect people not to notice.
572 Chapter 5
inauthentic can be jarring. For example, setting a virtual world
in war-torn France with PCs as members of the resistance could
work, but it would rather lose something if the PCs weren’t ever
in any danger of being killed. If the real-life French guerillas had
been indestructible, the Nazis wouldn’t even have invaded. NonPD isn’t the only authenticity issue with historical scenarios, of
course (the fact that Paris was occupied for only 50 months
somewhat limits the lifespan of a resistance scenario); it is,
however, the biggest one.
Even in original fictional worlds, effective immortality has
major implications. Society would develop in entirely different
ways if everyone knew they weren’t going to die. What careers
would people have? How would laws be made and enforced?
Would science advance faster or slower? Would there be war? If
not, how would groups resolve their differences? Would there
be religions? Jesus’ resurrection would be no big deal if the
same thing routinely happened to everyone. Where would
everybody live? What would children do when they grew up?
Most designers take the point of view that these are not
questions that need to be answered. The loss of immersion
delivered from saying nothing on the subject is minuscule
compared to the loss that would be incurred by dumping
players into a virtual world that followed through the
implications of immortality—it would be seriously alien to
players’ real-world experiences. Under the circumstances, this
is therefore the most sensible approach.
Pro-PD people may still urge caution, in that systems which
work fine in the real world may behave less well when applied in
a virtual world with no PD. Example: If no one died it would play
havoc with the housing market. It’s often the case that churn
will take on the role that death does in the real world, though:
Characters do die when their players quit, therefore a house will
go back on the market if its owner cancels his or her account.
Life in the Virtual World 573
There are some exceptions (for example, no PC would take out
life insurance, therefore insurance companies would not be as
rich as in the real world, therefore investment in stocks and
shares would be lower) but these are invariably swamped by
other factors anyway.
A virtual world without PD can be created to address all these
issues, some of which are, frankly, of the “clutching at straws”
variety anyway. Most virtual worlds do, in fact—worlds without
PD greatly outnumber those with it. You can have a successful
non-PD world.
So why is it, then, that time after time designers and long-term
players will sense there is something missing from their virtual
world, take a good, hard look at it, and conclude that, you know,
maybe PD really isn’t all that bad?
Why Permanent Death?
Players are against PD because they don’t want to die. Although
some socializers wishing to flaunt their loving and caring
credentials might disagree, players in general don’t care if
someone else dies—they just don’t want it to happen to them.
Because no one wants it to happen to them, it doesn’t happen to
anyone. So everyone is happy, right?
For a time, yes. Then, the fact that the whole experience is
vacuous begins to nag at them.
Achievement—and with it a sense of personal advancement—
can come in two ways in virtual worlds, neither of which occurs
without PD or some equivalent. Characters can either advance
gradually via a series of small actions done well, or heroically
through single, life-changing events. Without PD, “small
actions” are steps on a treadmill and “done well” means you
move slightly faster than people who have “done badly.”
574 Chapter 5
Heroism is no such thing—it’s just another example of a “small
action.” This is the root cause of the dissatisfaction that many
players of non-PD virtual worlds develop.
Players play virtual worlds to explore and celebrate their
identity. The undertaking of courageous acts, whether for gain
or to help others, can make highly significant contributions to
personal development. It’s the uneasy realization that actually
these acts weren’t as courageous as you thought they were that
can cause the problems.
Note that it’s not the immediate thrill that’s important. Fights
in EverQuest wouldn’t necessarily be any more exciting if death
really meant death. It’s in the rationalization where it differs.
When failure at an action means oblivion, you can say more
about someone who attempts it than you can when all they’ll
suffer is a wuss-slap. The difference is of immense importance,
because they’re not only putting their tangible character on the
line, they’re putting their nascent identity on the line too.
People may not want to undertake such risks. This is fair
enough—bravery doesn’t have to mean stupidity. In a PD world,
players assess the chance they’ll escape with their lives: If it’s
too low86, they’ll pass. In a non-PD world, players don’t want the
risk but still want to perform the action. The penalty for failure
is therefore lowered to acceptable levels. Even stupid players
won’t lose their characters. Failure may be annoying, but it
takes more than that to make success heroic.
86 To enhance excitement and reduce the incidence of death, the actual risk of
PD is generally lower than players estimate it to be—that is, favorably
“unrealistic.” For example, although a dragon will always beat a newbie,
higher-level characters might be able to survive more often than they would
against a “real” fire-breathing lizard the size of an apartment block.
Life in the Virtual World 575
Acts are only heroic when there is a significant, perceived
chance of real loss and no easier alternative. The following acts
are not heroic:
• Standing in the way of a runaway cat. (No chance of real
loss.)
• Walking across a minefield you didn’t know was there. (No
perceived danger.)
• Swimming across a crocodile-infested river next to a bridge.
(Brave, but unnecessary.)
Putting PD into a virtual world does not make people heroic. It
does, however, ensure that those who talk heroic are heroic. The
designers of virtual worlds can make all their players immortal,
but they can’t make any of them heroes. Only players can make
themselves heroes. If they later come to realize they’re not the
heroes they thought they were, disenchantment sets in.
The most compelling reason for having PD is that it makes a
virtual world meaningful in its own terms. Players can always
construct meanings for activities in their virtual world, but
these are not intrinsic to it or (crucially) to the real world.
Without PD, a virtual world can still be real-world meaningful,
but in external contexts only (for example, it’s a dating agency).
Virtual worlds are about identity; if you can’t lose something,
you don’t value it; therefore, you can never value your identity
in a non-PD world as much as you can in a PD world. This is less
fierce than it sounds, in that immersion to persona level can
provide the external context that makes a virtual world
meaningful (to the immersed player); it’s just harder to reach
that level of immersion in a virtual world that doesn’t have PD.
Meaningfulness is the fuel that powers the engine of identity
development. It helps you get where you’re going. Without it,
576 Chapter 5
you either have to freewheel (non-PD) or get out and push (roleplay).
Pleasure only works if there is pain against which to compare it.
For many players, the virtual world is the pleasure and the real
world is the pain; these players don’t want to experience pain in
the virtual world too, hence the issue of consent is important.
However, withdrawing consent also withdraws meaning—not
just from the withdrawer, but from everyone else, too. It violates
the “no easier alternative” requirement of heroism. Mechanisms
to prevent this aren’t hard to propose—a simple level cap for
immortal characters would do it—but the problem is that many
players won’t stand for it: They want meaning without
consenting to what’s required to give it to them. If the virtual
world can’t provide it, they have to provide it for themselves. Is
it surprising that they often end up dissatisfied?
You can see their point of view, of course. As far as they are
concerned, they are role-playing a hero in a virtual world built
for heroes87. Heroes are special people who don’t get killed, ergo
their character shouldn’t get killed either. Players may be
nobodies in real life, but in virtual worlds they’re somebody.
In the Gilbert and Sullivan musical The Gondoliers88, there is a
celebrated song, “There Lived a King.” It tells the tale of a
monarch who, determining it to be unfair that he can drink
Rhenish wine while other people have to drink toddy, promotes
all his subjects to the highest ranks. The kingdom swarms with
lord chancellors, bishops, ambassadors, prime ministers, dukes,
field marshals, lord lieutenants, admirals, and party leaders.
87 This isn’t true for all virtual worlds, of course, but it is for most gameoriented ones.
88 William S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan, The Gondoliers or The King of
Barataria. London, Savoy Theatre, 1889.
Life in the Virtual World 577
The result isn’t hard to predict:
In short, whoever you may be,
To this conclusion you’ll agree,
When every one is somebodee,
Then no one’s anybody!
If everyone is a hero, no one is.
This argument is very pessimistic. It suggests that everyone
can’t be a hero even if they do heroic things: Everyone does
heroic things, everyone becomes a hero, heroism is
commonplace, therefore no one is truly a hero. The meaning has
been stripped by its ubiquity.
Heroism does have a saving throw, though. It’s true that if
everyone were a hero then no one would be. The thing is,
everyone can be a hero, just not at the same time.
The Hero’s Journey
In his influential book, The Hero with a Thousand Faces89
,
academic Joseph Campbell asserted that the various heroic
myths of all cultures follow the same, basic storyline. His theory
was that myths are tied to the human psyche; they are cultural
expressions of the universal need to explain the same,
fundamental concepts of social, worldly, and other-worldly
realities. Not all narratives follow the basic pattern (which is
called the hero’s journey90), but all myths and epics do. Famously,
the movie Star Wars follows the hero’s journey almost to the
letter.
89 Joseph Campbell, The Hero with a Thousand Faces. Princeton, Bolllingen
Series 17, Princeton University Press, 1949.
90 It works for heroines too, but this is 1949 speaking.
578 Chapter 5
Many of the steps in the hero’s journey are symbolic or
metaphoric, so it may take a student of myth to recognize some
of the more subtle ones. Once they have been identified,
however, the basic sequence will usually be the same.
Occasionally, steps may be omitted or reversed in order, but on
the whole the overall structure of the myth will be the same.
Heroes are heroes because they complete the hero’s journey.
This is a different perspective on heroism to that understood by
players of virtual worlds. The hero’s journey includes heroic
acts, but these alone don’t make someone a hero. If you risk life
and limb—even in a PD world—to save an innocent, that’s an
heroic act. People may regard you as a hero, but it’s a simile:
They’re holding you in the same esteem they would hold a hero
of ancient myth. If you want to be a hero, though, you have to
complete the hero’s journey.
This, you can do. Let’s examine how.
The hero’s journey consists of a number of steps. Some of these
are more significant than others, some take longer to occur than
others, some have more symbolic connotations than others.
They are grouped into three phases: departure, initiation, and
return. Here’s a brief description of the steps.
Departure
• The call to adventure. The hero is given an indication that
everything is going to change. The call may be symbolic,
and the hero doesn’t have to realize what it means.
• Refusal of the call. The hero is required to act, but initially
refuses. This can be through fear, duty, or a whole bunch
of other things. If the hero holds out, they may be
subjected to assault until they take the hint.
• Supernatural aid. Once the hero accepts the call, a
supernatural guide is revealed to help them. Now they
can enter the world of their quest.
Life in the Virtual World 579
• The crossing of the first threshold. The hero leaves their
own world and enters that of their adventure. This is a
dangerous place, with unknown rules and unknown
limits. The new realm may have a guardian that the hero
has to defeat or befriend to get past the threshold.
• The belly of the whale. This is symbolic, representing the
final separation of the hero’s old world, old self, and a
developing new world, new self. By entering the belly of
the whale (or anything womb-like), the hero is
committing to rebirth and transformation.
Initiation
• The road of trials. These are a series of (often three) ordeals
that the hero must undergo to begin their metamorphosis.
They could well fail at least one.
• The meeting with the goddess. This is another highly symbolic
step. The goddess represents the totality of knowledge; if the
hero is not consumed by exposure to it, they are liberated by
it. This is usually described in terms of the hero’s
experiencing absolute, unconditional love. The
understanding the hero gains leads to a “union of opposites;”
the hero’s self-image begins coalesce as the hero gains
awareness of the forces of life and death, of mortal and
spiritual.
• Woman as the temptress. Woman here is a metaphor for the
temptations that may cause the hero to stray from their
journey. The hero’s old-world origins are at odds with the
new world, but the hero overcomes the urge to return to
them.
• Atonement with the father. This is the key point of the journey,
in which the hero faces whatever entity has the supreme
power in their life. The hero recognizes the darkness in his or
herself and discovers the light. The hero’s old self is killed
(literally or metaphorically) and the new self steps forth.
580 Chapter 5
• Apotheosis. A period of peace, rest, and bliss that the hero
experiences before commencing the return home. Old
cultural assumptions are finally broken, and old prejudices
forgotten.
• The ultimate boon. Although the hero has already achieved
the real aim of their quest, this is where they pick up the
object they set out to acquire. The boon is often a token for
which the hero is now sufficiently pure to obtain. They must
bring it back for the benefit of all.
Return
• Refusal of the return. Life in the new world is so pleasant
and carefree that the hero doesn’t see any reason to go
home.
• The magic flight. The hero can’t stay and have the boon.
This is the exciting escape with it.
• Rescue from without. The hero still doesn’t want to return,
is prevented from returning, or is too weak to return.
Powerful friends or allies help it happen.
• The crossing of the return threshold. The hero returns to
their old world and old life. How will they reconcile the
old and the new? How will they apply their newfound
wisdom?
• Master of the two worlds. The hero achieves a serene or
transcendental balance between the old, material world
and the new, spiritual one. They accept their destiny.
• Freedom to live. Due to their mastery, the hero no longer
fears death; they can live for the moment, unconcerned
with whatever the past has held and whatever the future
holds. It’s the journey that’s important, not the
destination.
In the context of virtual worlds, the hero’s journey is normally
discussed in terms of its relevance (or lack thereof) to story arcs.
That’s not how I shall be applying it here.
Life in the Virtual World 581
The hero’s adventurous journey betokens a journey to find the
self. It’s the same journey that players of virtual worlds
undertake. They play to have fun, but they gain much more than
that: They develop as people.
Let’s take a look at the steps as they apply to virtual worlds.
Departure
In this discussion, the “old world” is the real world and the “new
world” is the virtual world. The departure action therefore takes
place in real world.
• The call to adventure. Something triggers the would-be
player’s attention. It may be a specific advertisement,
testimonial, shelf unit, cover disk, magazine article, or pushy
friend—it doesn’t really matter. The point is that the player
now finds the idea of virtual worlds appealing when
previously either they didn’t or they hadn’t thought about it.
• Refusal of the call. There are lots of reasons not to enter a
virtual world: expense, time, fears of inadequacy, a social life.
However, the appeal of the virtual world grows. The player
really wants to try one.
• Supernatural aid. This step may be skipped if the player
concedes to their desire. Where it isn’t, it’s likely that the
player will know someone else who already plays and is able
to help, or is a member of a group of friends who decide to
try the virtual world together.
• The crossing of the first threshold. The player installs the
software on their computer and powers up. They enter the
virtual world, which is a dangerous place with unknown
rules and unknown limits. The quality of the interface
determines whether or not it counts as a guardian.
• The belly of the whale. The character generation system. The
player creates a new self for the new world. It’s a formal
rebirth; the player is undertaking to become someone else.
582 Chapter 5
Initiation
This stage takes place in the virtual world, and is therefore the
one that is most important to virtual world designers (more
important than they may realize!). You may want to look back at
the player development tracks shown in Figure 3.5 before you
read this. You also might like to refer to the review of Hedron’s
Six Circles, because this (at last!) is why I mentioned it91
.
• The road of trials. The player finds their feet. This is the
opportunist/griefer step, where players meet and
respond to small challenges to determine the extent of
their abilities. Their success or failure at these will
establish their course of future action.
• The meeting with the goddess. The player seeks
knowledge, either through experimentation (as a
scientist) or from others (as a networker). The more that
players learn about the virtual world and its inhabitants,
the more they learn about themselves. If they can handle
what they learn, they are stronger for it. They begin the
process of immersion—that is, of coalescing their reallife self with their virtual self.
• Woman as the temptress. Once players have learned
enough to become accomplished, they are at last
informed enough to judge whether they want to attempt
to complete it. Are they in it for the long haul, or is their
academic curiosity sufficiently satisfied that they don’t
feel they need to continue? This step covers the
transition from discovery to application, from learning to
doing.
• Atonement with the father. This is the step that players
spend most of their time taking, putting the skills they
have acquired into practice. It’s where the planner-type
91 See if you can match the circles up to the steps—it’s not all that difficult.
Life in the Virtual World 583
achievers and politician-type socializers strive to
improve and impress. The virtual world’s achievement
metric (for example, character level) charts the players’
progress to their goal. When they reach the end as the
virtual world defines it, they “win.” It is the key moment
in their virtual existence. The “father” who they are
confronting is the virtual world’s (lead) designer, whose
will is expressed by the virtual world and who wields its
ultimate power. When the designer (through the
implementation of the virtual world) accepts them, then
they have the closure they need to move on to the final,
serene state of total immersion.
• Apotheosis. Players wind up here as friend-type
socializers or hacker-type explorers. They understand
the virtual world, its people, and themselves; they are at
peace with all. Challenges from the virtual world, when
they arise, are no longer important.
• The ultimate boon. Oh dear. Virtual worlds don’t have an
ultimate boon. Players have no token of their
achievement. They have skills and wisdom that they can
bring back with them into the real world, but nothing
formal to symbolize it.
Return
This final stage accounts for players’ return from the virtual
world to reality (or, perhaps more tellingly, the acceptance of
players that the virtual world is part of reality).
• Refusal of the return. The player has power, respect,
friends, and peace. Why would they want to return to the
real world?
• The magic flight. The live team will usually not want a
player to leave, and may provide a compelling elder game
to try to ensnare them. They don’t, however, want their
boon back (or wouldn’t, if they had one in the first place)
584 Chapter 5
and the barriers they erect are of the temptation variety
rather than the physical or emotional of common myth.
• Rescue from without. Your parents, your workmates, your
significant other—“Stop spending so much time on that
computer!”
• The crossing of the return threshold. The player finally
separates from the virtual world. Contrary to what many
players think, this rarely involves a “burn all your
bridges” deletion of characters (that will typically happen
in the atonement step). If it involves an account
cancellation, it’s for practical rather than symbolic
reasons. The player stops playing simply because they
don’t need to play any more.
• Master of the two worlds. The player’s virtual and real self
are the same. The player can return to the virtual world,
but it’s a place like any other. It has lost its mythical
significance (to that player).
• Freedom to live. Players can finally be themselves.
Apart from the problem with the boon, this all looks very neat
and tidy. The very general nature of the hero’s journey, however,
with its mythical and symbolic components, means that with a
little imagination it can be applied to stylized sequences of
action where perhaps it isn’t really appropriate92. To what
extent is this true for its use concerning player development
tracks?
Analysis
Conjecture: Playing virtual worlds is a kind of hill-climbing
activity through identity space; the hero’s journey is an
92 The breakfast’s journey: The story of one cereal’s transformation through
the other-worldly human digestive tract. “When I first saw the flash of a
silver spoon, little did I realize that through its purity I would embark on a
journey that would take me, literally, to the world’s end and beyond….”
Life in the Virtual World 585
algorithm for finding a very good local maximum, if not
necessarily a global one.
I believe that the hero’s journey does directly apply to player
development in virtual worlds. However, the fit is not exact.
Given that the hero’s journey has evolved independently in all
cultures through the millennia, should some effort be made to
try and make the fit better? Or is the fit not exact because in
truth it isn’t a fit at all?
I’ll go through what I perceive to be the main issues. This is all
speculative; see what you think:
• The belly of the whale. Although it’s fine to identify the
character creation screen as “womb-like” in its effect,
normally a myth would have something that was suggestive
of a womb in appearance, too. A cave, a pit, a log cabin, a
belly of a whale…. Would making character creation take
place in such an environment speak more deeply to players’
subconsciousnesses? Or does the fact it’s called “character
creation” do away with the need for such symbolism as it’s
pretty obvious what’s happening anyway?
• The meeting with the goddess. It’s very tempting to equate the
addiction that many players feel about virtual worlds with
the “unconditional love” metaphor here, but sadly it doesn’t
work. Not only does addiction share none of the qualities
that unconditional love is meant to symbolize, but it doesn’t
really bite until the next stage anyway, where the player gets
to use their new-found powers. That said, then, what is the
virtual world’s equivalent of “unconditional love?” The
goddess could be a player’s guide or a web site or some other
fount of knowledge, but where does love come in? It’s a very
common metaphor in myth.
• Woman as temptress. This is a stage that all players go
through, but it’s not really any more special than the
transition from griefer/opportunist to networker/ scientist.
586 Chapter 5
If we lost lots of players here who decided that now they
know the rules they don’t want to play, fair enough; but we
don’t. Why is this step important for the hero’s journey but
less important (although still present) in player development
terms?
• Atonement with the father (I). The mere existence of this step
suggests that the player’s presence in the virtual world must
come to an end; players need the closure, they can’t go on
forever. This is not something with which the developers of
virtual worlds would necessarily concur. They don’t want
players to leave93, so they continually add new content—
thereby denying atonement and initiation. In such
circumstances, players have huge difficulties satisfactorily
completing their hero’s journey: They can only do so by
rejecting the father (who has rejected them), which is not
pleasant.
• Atonement with the father (II). Atonement implies that
acceptance isn’t automatic: The player must “deserve” it.
This is where a PD world delivers and a non-PD one doesn’t.
If success is guaranteed with time, acceptance isn’t in
question.
• Atonement with the father (III). Virtual worlds can only
measure tangible things. For planner-type achievers this is
easy enough (experience levels, skill levels, possessions, and
so on), but for politician-type socializers, how do they gain
final acceptance by the designer?
• Atonement with the father (IV). What happens when control of
the virtual world is wrested from the design team and
handed to, say, the marketing or the community service
group? An individual can act as a foster-father figure, but
they didn’t actually create the virtual world. Has the father
abandoned the hero?
93 Commercial virtual worlds are particularly keen on keeping players.
Life in the Virtual World 587
• The ultimate boon. The reason that most virtual worlds don’t
have this is because developers don’t want people to leave.
Although some players may accept the inevitability of their
departure, most developers don’t. It wouldn’t be hard to give
players recognition either within the virtual world or
without it; indeed, some virtual worlds do this94. It doesn’t
have to be the player’s ticket home, but it should be
something special that players can only ever obtain once.
• The magic flight (I). Without a boon, this still sort of goes to
plan: Players try to leave against the wishes of the guardians
of the virtual world. With a boon, the magic flight would
perhaps work counter to this. It’s easy to see how forcing a
player to retire would lead to attempts by that player to
continue to play. Secondary accounts would be opened then
closed, attempts to masquerade as a new player would be
made then detected, and so on until eventually the player
would get the message and stay away. This is not how
magical flights normally work! Heroes will usually have to
break out of the new world to reach the old, rather than be
stuck in the old because they fail to break back into the new.
• The magic flight (II). If players don’t leave, does not their
continuing presence interfere with the progress of other
players? Can heaven become full? Doesn’t the sheer number
of heroes still wandering around debase the currency of
heroism95? Perhaps trying to keep players involved
indefinitely is actually bad for a virtual world in the long
term?
• Master of the two worlds. The keepers of the virtual world
can’t give anything to the player that is of material use or
value in the real world because people will cheat to get it
94 MUD1 listed the names of its wizzes on tombs in a graveyard. MUD2 also
does this, and gives out wiz manuals and other goodies to people who get
this far, too.
95 This is the “when every one is somebodee” argument again.
588 Chapter 5
(imagine what would happen if there were a substantial cash
prize for reaching the level cap, for example). Unlike the new
world of myth, people really can enter virtual worlds; what’s
more, they can visit it with their buddies and bring out
boons by the truckload. Players take from the virtual world
the confidence, self-esteem, friendships, and life skills they
picked up there, but that’s all that’s of any use. It’s up to
them what they do with these.
• General. Players can achieve immersion without following all
these steps. If there is no formal end-point, for example, that
doesn’t stop people from reaching full immersion; it might
be harder or more frustrating for them, but they can still do
it. This may be a template for a hero’s journey, but you can
become a hero by following your own path, too.
You don’t have to leave a virtual world if you don’t want to
(they’re just places, after all), but for some people it’s a necessary
closure. Is denying an exit—through the design of the world—
therefore immoral? As you’ve probably come to expect now, this
is discussed later in Chapter 8.
Not everyone can complete the hero’s journey; not everyone can
be—or wants to be—a hero. People can and do stop beforehand;
some may even be heroes before they start. Everyone can try to
be a hero, though, and a well-designed virtual world gives them
a better chance of succeeding than almost anything else
available to ordinary people.
The critical thing is, although you can do heroic deeds in the
virtual world, you have to leave for them to count. You visit the
virtual world to become a hero, but you can only be a hero in the
real one. The virtual world is a part of the real world.
Warriors are only heroes when the battle is over. While the
battle is raging, they’re just trying to stay alive.
Life in the Virtual World 589
Attitudes to Permanent Death
Will attitudes to permanent death change?
If some way could be found to retain the desirable consequences
of PD while losing the undesirable ones, attitudes wouldn’t need
to change. With our current knowledge of PD, however, this
seems unlikely.
Change will have to occur, however, if virtual worlds are to
remain faithful to their essence, at least in combat-oriented
worlds. Dilution of the virtual world “product” will leave people
unsatisfied. Will they stop playing all virtual worlds, or
continually drift from one to the next, forever unable to find
something that satisfies their long-term aims without violating
their short-term criteria?
Existing virtual world culture is anti-PD. Upcoming virtual
worlds are therefore also likely to be anti-PD. This is primarily
due to imperfect early implementations96 and bad customer
service decisions; nevertheless, the legacy is there. Trying to
stop it is like trying to prevent a herd of cattle stampeding
toward an oasis in the desert: You know they’re going to drink it
dry and then they won’t be able to make it to the distant but
flowing river you want them to go to. But if you stand in their
way you’re only going to get trampled.
Players, fortunately, are not cattle. Those who think about the
subject—what they want and what they don’t want—may
change their views and (reluctantly) support PD. Then again,
they may become even stronger in their opposition to it. Change
96 Note that this does not imply that there must necessarily be a perfect one.
It may be that PD will always be flawed beyond redemption and therefore it’s
just as well that emerging virtual worlds reject it—even if this is for the
wrong reasons.
590 Chapter 5
would amount to a paradigm shift, however, which is very hard
to effect. That said, we’ve already had one the other way (early
MUDs had PD) so it’s not impossible.
Many designers feel that the reason PD fails is because it isn’t
“done right,” at least on the large scale. They could be correct.
However, they also believe that the way they plan on
implementing it is right. When it turns out to be wrong, they set
back the cause of PD even more. The more that designers know
about PD and non-PD, the more they can base their decisions on
experience rather than hope. With any luck, this section has
gone some way toward helping inform such decisions,
whichever way they eventually go.
I have one last thing to say before I leave the subject, which I
present here without comment. It’s a statistical observation
from a well-known, large-scale graphical virtual world:
A change from PD to non-PD has no effect on the number of
customer service complaints.
Draw your own conclusions.
Crafting
When characters are not fighting one another, what are they
doing? Socializing, exploring, and being pains, yes, but in
gameplay terms what do they have to occupy them? Except in
the elder game (which I’ll come to later), they’ll typically be
creating something (for example, digging iron, making arrows)
or providing a service (transporting iron, selling arrows).
Because in most virtual worlds the service side is either trivial
or automated, it’s normally lumped together with
manufacturing under the general heading of crafting.
Life in the Virtual World 591
Much of this was covered earlier in the Chapter 4 section on
economics, but there are a few more points that can be raised in
the light of what has been discussed since.
Manufacture
Here’s how a simple real-world manufacturing process works:
• Raw materials are grown, dug from the ground, or captured.
Examples: wheat, ore, cows.
• The raw materials are refined to get rid of the useless bits.
Examples: grain, copper, milk.
• The refined materials are made into components or finished
goods. Examples: bread, wire, cheese.
• Components are combined with other components to make
new components or finished goods. Examples: sandwiches,
circuit boards, pizzas.
• Finished goods are sold to consumers, who use them to
destruction.
• Destroyed goods are recycled into refined materials.
In virtual worlds, it’s usually even simpler. Except for animals,
raw materials typically emerge in refined form. Components
don’t exist: Raw/refined materials are combined (using an
abstract formula known as a recipe) to make finished goods.
Recycling does not occur, except perhaps when encapsulated in
some grand closed-economy scheme.
Needless to say, the excitement derived from crafting
approaches 0% in intensity.
592 Chapter 5
There are exceptions. The virtual world A Tale in the Desert97
,
which is set in ancient Egypt, has a full-blown crafting system
at its core. Players can collect slate from riverbeds, that can be
used to pay for tuition in stone blade fabrication; they can then
make a stone blade from slate, which will pay for tuition in the
carpentry skill; using wood obtained from trees, they can
manufacture a wood plane and create boards; also using wood
from trees, they can pay for the tuition necessary to make a
brick rack; they can then make a brick rack; grass can be
harvested and dried to make straw; they can obtain sand from
the desert and mud from riverbeds; using their brick rack, they
can finally manufacture bricks.
Needless to say, the excitement from crafting using this far
more sophisticated system still approaches 0% in intensity.
Fortunately, because it’s so tedious players will manufacture
components that they sell to each other; this introduces an
element of interaction that makes for some fun (at least it does
if people will sell you what you need). There are some gameplay
bugs to be ironed out, but designers have high hopes for A Tale
in the Desert as a proof of concept if nothing else.
If a virtual world has a craft system of any substance, there are
three golden rules to obey:
• All crafts should have gameplay value.
• The range of craftable objects should be great.
• The depth of crafting skills should be deep.
I’ve covered these elsewhere already, but I’ll quickly reprise the
reasons for them here. Crafts should have gameplay value
because this adds to immersion and interaction. This applies
even to basically intangible objects such as “pretty” jewelry:
97 http://www.egenesis.com/
Life in the Virtual World 593
Anything that impresses PCs should also impress NPCs, even if
only crudely so by comparison.
The range of craftable objects should be great or people will end
up making the same things and flooding the economy with
more goods of one type than it needs.
The depth of craftable skills should be great or players will not
consider crafting as a career. If crafting is something that
adventurers do in their spare time, this is enough; if you want to
cater to people who would rather create objects than destroy
mobiles, however, they’ll need skill sets potentially as deep as
adventurers’.
There may still be a problem when player expectations come up
against virtual world economics. The “I’m role-playing a hero
and I don’t see why I should be killed” adventurer has an
equivalent in the “I’m role-playing a swordsmith and I don’t see
why I shouldn’t sell my swords’” crafter. Sorry, guys, but no one
is buying the identical swords that NPC swordsmiths are
making, they’re not going to buy yours either unless you drop
the price.
Recipes
My house is within five miles of four large supermarkets. The
bread in the first one is too doughy; the bread in the second is
too crusty; the bread in the third is too soft; the bread in the
fourth is perfect (a shame the rest of the stuff they sell is so
rubbish). Bread has been manufactured for thousands of years,
but even today bakers use different recipes.
To make crafting more palatable to non-socializers, some virtual
worlds have introduced explorative or competitive elements to
it. One favored technique is to have multiple recipes for the
same basic object (or, commonly, spell—this can be applied to
594 Chapter 5
more than just manufacture), some of which will endow the
resulting creation with different properties than others. A
recipe typically consists of a set of ingredients; these will often
have to be explicitly arranged in some (usually linear) sequence,
but in some implementations the “use recipe” action will do it
implicitly.
This is one of those suggestions that sounds reasonable until
you think about it. Unfortunately, it is frequently implemented
without being thought about.
The idea is that players should be rewarded for
experimentation. If you sit around mixing reagents and come
up with a recipe for a steel that is more hard-wearing than
regular steel without being any more brittle, you should be able
to profit from your experiment. This is fair enough: If people
discover through use that your swords are better than Joe
NPC’s, they’ll come to you next time they need a new one. This
is, of course, until some helpful soul puts a ton of sword recipes
on their web site with a description of the precise effect of each
one.
To counter this possibility, designers will usually try one of two
approaches. The first of these is to allow characters to patent a
recipe if they discover it first; subsequent use of this recipe by
any other crafter will result in a royalty for the patent holder.
This is fine for those who start playing the virtual world early,
but it’s no use to those who come along six months later.
The second solution is to individualize recipes, so that the
proportions of ingredients that you need to make the perfect
sword are different to the ones that I need. This is unrealistic
when applied to mundane object creation, but works for things
like magical artifacts. Asheron’s Call allows for spell
experimentation through different ordered combinations of
“spell components,” and incorporated a random taper to make
Life in the Virtual World 595
these unique to every character. These yielded easily to bruteforce cracking methods, though. AC did have a back-up
mechanism to discourage spell recipes from becoming
commonly known, in that the more often a spell was used the
weaker it grew. Mages who knew the recipe were thus
disinclined to tell others what it was. Unfortunately, it only
takes one recipe-holder to break ranks (for example, an explorer
who doesn’t care if a spell loses its potency) and anyone who
wants to find out can.
The root of the problem is that players don’t like having personal
recipes. They want recipes to be global, so they don’t have to
figure them out in advance. Designers may want to convince
them otherwise, but it’s not going to happen. Like any other
discovery in virtual worlds, once a recipe is unearthed it rapidly
becomes common knowledge.
Ironically, although recipes are typically conceived to help
crafters, it’s adventurers who are most likely to end up using
them. There is some scope for using recipes in directly
competitive situations—that is, as combat scripts. There, the
efficacy of your recipe is directly dependent on the recipe your
opponent is using. Co-operative recipes, where I do this while
you do that, are also possible; however, they’re not going to
make manufacture any more fun.
Beyond the Virtual World
So, I want to bake a loaf of bread. I get the ingredients, I mix
them up, I stick them in the oven, then—I wait? What if I’m not
baking bread but am manufacturing swords? I get the metal
together, heat it, beat it, rapidly cool it, heat it, beat it, rapidly
cool it, heat it—for how long? Do I actually have to do this? My
character has the skills, not me—why should I have to be
present while it happens?
596 Chapter 5
The sheer monotony of repeatedly clicking on the same icon (or,
for really advanced systems, the same three icons) for long, long
periods has led designers to look at ways to alleviate the
boredom. The most promising one opens up other possibilities,
too: offline action.
Although many players may find this hard to believe, they
cannot spend 24 hours a day playing in their virtual world.
There are real-world demands that have to be met, most notably
sleep. Some of the time, players are disconnected from their
characters. What do the characters do during this offline
period?
Well, the answer is that they can do the stuff that the player
didn’t want them to do while being played. Thus, the character
can sleep, eat, visit the bathroom, and so on. For reasons of
safety98 and confusion99, they will usually not be visibly present
in the virtual world while they do this (that is, they’re not
temporarily NPCs); however, they are there in the abstract100
.
It seems obvious, therefore, that if players want their characters
to do something mindlessly boring, this would be the time to do
it. You set your character digging, you log off, go to school, come
back half a day later, log back on and your character has
deposited six truckloads of ore in your depot.
98 In PvP or PD worlds.
99 People trying to interact with them.
100 How they reappear when the player starts a new session without
shattering immersion is an issue that concerns all virtual worlds. For some
genres, a fictional (but rarely convincing) explanation may be possible, but
for most you just have to accept that it’s out of context. Characters blink into
and out of existence and that’s all there is to it; tough luck if you weren’t
expecting it.
Life in the Virtual World 597
Virtual worlds always took some account of characters’
continued existence while their players are offline. MUD1, for
example, would gradually heal characters’ wounds while no one
was playing them. These weren’t actually offline activities,
though; you didn’t really have a choice about what your
character did while you weren’t there.
The first steps in that direction concerned trade. You hired an
NPC to buy and sell stuff for you (usually the latter rather than
the former) while you went away adventuring. The NPC
remained in place when you finished your session, therefore
when you next returned you might have found that someone
had bought something from you or sold you the materials you
wanted. There are some issues as to how price changes work in
this situation, but in general it works well. Offline manufacture
extends the same principle to the PC, rather than some NPC
hireling, and simulates what the PC was doing rather than
actually doing it (as it does with the NPC).
Skill learning fits this system well. Learning how to make a pot
isn’t something that occurs the instant you hand over your
training fee; to make sense, it ought to take time. By making it
an offline occurrence, this passage of time can be suggested
without drying the brains of the players. Furthermore, it makes
them eager to come back next session to try out their new skills,
and hey, it benefits adventurers, too!
There are other applications for offline action of which travel is
perhaps the most interesting. Virtual worlds are large, but
players don’t really get a feel for how large because of the
(economy-wrecking) instant travel solutions that are available
to them. No one wants to make players march their characters
across a desert, but how can you convey a sense of remoteness if
you let them press the magic button and materialize instantly?
Well, offline action lets you do it. You set off walking, riding,
flying, or whatever, then disconnect. When you reconnect the
598 Chapter 5
next day, there you are. If you were to reconnect prematurely,
you would appear in the desert, your exact location interpolated
from your starting position, destination, the elapsed time, and
your mode of transport.
There are two ways to handle offline activities, whatever you
use them for.
The first way is to give orders in advance. Just before you log
off, you instruct the virtual world as to what your character will
be doing while you’re away. Some of these tasks will take longer
than others, but you can create a queue of orders so it doesn’t
really matter. When you next log in, the character will have
worked through some or all of the queue, and you can pick up
from there. The advantages of this approach are that you can be
informed (for example, by email or phone message) when a task
is complete, and that you can set orders without using the
virtual world’s client software (for example, via a standard web
browser from work).
The second way is a more quantum mechanics approach. Your
character accumulates activity time while you are offline, but
you don’t have to decide how it’s spent until you log in and
collapse the quantum wave. This means you can take into
account events that have occurred while you were offline—for
example, if gold has been discovered in them thar hills in the
direction opposite to where you were intending to travel. This
retroactive approach doesn’t allow for interrupts when actions
are complete, but it’s handy for meeting up with friends who
have wandered off since you last played.
There’s no reason why a virtual world couldn’t use both of these
approaches, of course: When the action queue is empty,
subsequent offline time is banked for when the player next logs
in.
Life in the Virtual World 599
Offline actions aren’t a panacea for boring activities. In practice,
there will usually be some limit to the amount of offline time
that can be spent, if only to stop players from setting up
programmed mules to act as craft factory cash cows. Some
people object to it in principle, as it can break the bond between
player and character (“How can I be in the virtual world and at
work in the office at the same time?”). Nevertheless, this idea
does have potential and the advantages seem to outweigh the
disadvantages.
The Elder Game
There comes a point when players have advanced so far that
they feel they have achieved everything that they set out to
achieve. They are no longer interested in the activities that used
to occupy their time: They feel they have “made it.” The
question then arises: What can they do instead?
Who Plays the Elder Game?
The content that occupies players in advanced states of
immersion is known as the elder game101. It deals with four types
of player, each with differing needs. In hero’s journey terms,
these are those who are in the following states:
• Pre-apotheosis. Players whose characters have advanced
quicker than they themselves have. This may be because
the players have had too much help on the way, or they
didn’t recognize/understand the atonement (that is, final
achievement) process. These players will want more of
the content that they were consuming before they
101 The term was first coined by Raph Koster. Although he applied it to gametype virtual worlds (hence the name), it extends to non-game virtual worlds,
too.
600 Chapter 5
reached the elder game, but which they have now
exhausted.
• Apotheosis. The players for whom the elder game is
primarily intended. They have succeeded in their goal,
and are enjoying resting on their laurels prior to
returning to the real world.
• Refusal of return. They don’t want to stop playing, and the
live team usually doesn’t want them to go either.
However, they’ve either used all the elder game content
or are self-generating it.
• Post-crossing of the return threshold. These players can
return happily to the virtual world at any level. They
have nothing to prove, and can therefore play how and
when they want for the sheer joy of it.
Let’s take these in order.
Looking back to Figure 3.5’s player development tracks, the
main types of player in a pre-apotheosis state will be politicians
and planners. Politics has long been promoted as one of the two
great elder games for large-scale virtual worlds102, because it
self-generates content: Players do things that impact one
another, which leads to new courses of action with different
impacts, indefinitely. Self-generated content is inexpensive and
long-lasting. Evidence from textual worlds suggests that
politics103 is indeed a good elder game for players with
conveyor-belt characters that traveled at the wrong speed; it’s
also a useful delaying pursuit for players at the refusal to return
step. It doesn’t really help those in apotheosis, though.
102 The other, which we’ll look at in detail shortly, is player-created content.
103 Note that this does not have to be democratic politics, no matter how
much players bang on about “living in a democracy.” It can be different at
different tiers, too—for example, local democracy, national theocracy.
Life in the Virtual World 601
The other pre-apotheosis player type likely to have characters in
advance of their degree of immersion are planners. These are
the achiever types who went at it too mechanistically and
matured their characters before they matured themselves.
They’re still looking to achieve. For these players, remorting is
probably the best solution, as it at least holds out the prospect
that they’ll reach a sense of fulfillment at some point; however,
the existence of remorting as a possibility may lead other
players not to feel they have “finished” when perhaps before
they might, therefore they’ll head off on another dispiriting
achievement ladder that will do them no favors at all.
For some virtual worlds, the reason that planner-type achievers
reach the elder game is because the virtual world itself has no
formal indication that they have reached “the end.” In this
situation, the human thing to do would be to add a recognition
that the player has undergone a rite of initiation. The inhuman
thing to do would be to add more content to keep the players
achieving. Sadly, the latter is not uncommon, particularly in
commercial virtual worlds.
Players who are in a state of apotheosis will be either hackertype explorers or friends-type socializers. The former can
usually be catered for by allowing building privileges (assuming
that they didn’t have them already; if they did, building is part of
“the game” rather than “the elder game,” so won’t be of much
use here). Building may be only a limited option in a commercial
virtual world, where real-world copyright laws could be
enforced to devastating effect. Legal solutions are likely to be
found, however, which will remedy this situation.
Friends-type socializers will want to sit around chatting to one
another, and are therefore easy to deal with as long as they have
something in-context to chat about. Historically, chat content
has been generated by the snoop command, which allows one
player to see what another player sees without that player’s
602 Chapter 5
knowledge. Again, although this works for hobbyist virtual
worlds, there may be legal problems if it were tried in
commercial ones; people value their privacy, even if they’ve
signed an end-user agreement that says they don’t.
As mentioned earlier, politics works well for players who are
refusing to return. It gives them something vaguely meaningful
to do, which they can practice almost indefinitely (even when, as
a party leader, they lose an election and are rejected by their
party—at least it gives them a goal to reclaim what they’ve
lost). Unlike the situation for politician-type socializers, it is
unlikely that post-apotheosis players will actually enjoy what
they are doing, however, and resentment could well build up.
The end, when it comes, could be acrimonious.
Players who have crossed the threshold are the easiest to deal
with as they require no new content; their elder game, if it can
be called that, is to do whatever they like doing the most.
Responses vary. At one extreme, they may never feel the need to
enter the virtual world ever again; at the other, they might take
up residence and spend their whole time exploring or helping
newbies or politicking or whatever (hopefully not slaughtering
newbies). Some may become members of the live team.
Player Interest and the Elder Game
I mentioned in Chapter 3, while deriving a third dimension for
the player interest graph, that MUD2’s wizzes are griefers,
politicians, networkers, or friends: They are not the worldoriented types of planners, opportunists, hackers, and scientists.
Why is this? Shouldn’t they be hacker-type explorers or friendstype socializers?
MUD2 has rules about what wizzes can and cannot do. To
prevent abuses of their (considerable) powers, they are not
allowed to use them to play “normally” as a non-wiz (that is, a
Life in the Virtual World 603
mortal). In other words, if a wiz wants to play in the mortal
world as a mortal, they can’t use their special wiz abilities; they
have to use a different, non-wiz character. In the discussion
from which the original player types graph was derived, wizzes
therefore considered what they did as a wiz to be separate from
what they did as a mortal. Some of them spent most of their
time as a wiz; some spent most of it as a mortal. The rules
forbade them from doing achiever or explorer things as wizzes,
which is why they didn’t show up in the analysis of what wizzes
did. In fact, these players did all these activities, just not using
their wiz personae104
.
The reason that wizzes weren’t exclusively hackers or friends
was because many of them had crossed the threshold and were
no longer in apotheosis; they were playing merely because they
enjoyed playing. Some things they could do using wiz powers;
others they couldn’t, so they did them as mortals. This is why
Figure 3.3 doesn’t include any world-oriented player types—it
only lists what wiz-level players were allowed to do using their
wiz-level characters.
MUD2’s wizzes were automatically co-opted to the live team, a
duty they could dispatch to whatever degree they cared. They
could only use their wiz characters, because wiz-owned mortals
had to remain incognito so as not to compromise them105. Thus,
there were only four ways to behave as wizzes. Here they are:
104 Actually, that’s not quite true. As we shall see shortly, they did do explorer
things using their wizzes, but they were lumped in with socializers because
their activities looked superficially the same.
105 I was chatting to a man on the platform for the train from London
Paddington to Heathrow Airport, telling him I thought it was a great line
even though it was getting bad publicity because of the ticket prices, when
he revealed that he was the chief engineer who had planned the project.
Everything I said to him thereafter was informed by this knowledge, and
therefore useless to him. If you know that the person you’re speaking to has
power, you treat them differently whether or not they want you to.
604 Chapter 5
• Griefers. Griefers with power will either use it
responsibly106 or abuse it and be banned. In a welldesigned virtual world, griefers who are unable to move
on will rarely reach the elder game anyway; those
griefers-at-heart that do will understand that they can
act explicitly on other players in a benevolent fashion,
even if the delights of malevolence ultimately prove too
tempting. In MUD2, for example, griefer wizzes would
try to make the lives of mortals more interesting by
tinkering with the virtual world itself in subtle,
undetectable ways. Done well, it was like being guided
through trials by your own, personal angel; done badly, it
was like being tormented in perpetuity by your own,
personal devil.
• Politicians. These people see themselves as good guys,
organizing fun activities like leaders at a children’s
holiday camp. These activities can be invaluable as
bonding exercises, but they also can be immersionbusting and incredibly irritating to those who don’t want
to take part. Politicians tend not to get on with other
politicians, whose events (and even presence) clash with
their own endeavors.
• Networkers. These are oracle-like players, who are happy
to help others by sharing what they have learned, yet
rarely in a boastful kind of way. Unlike explorer types, for
whom the acquisition of knowledge is itself intrinsically
fun, these people give it away for free. Although their
help and advice is limited to low-level activities that help
people get involved with a virtual world, it’s generally
fine. If they spout less well-known information, this will
annoy achiever types (who see people getting an easy
ride) and some explorers (who see the dissemination of
106 No, that’s not a contradiction in terms.
Life in the Virtual World 605
information as taking away the potential fun of other
explorers).
• Friends. They snoop on mortals, they chat, they laugh,
they complain about how things aren’t the same as they
were when they were a mortal. They like each other’s
company, and don’t like it when other wizzes fall out.
To this list, we should add hackers and scientists. Hackers use
their knowledge to create things, but aren’t all that bothered in
exploiting it. Whereas politicians will build a whole new area
and dump players in it to have fun, hackers do it because the
creativity itself is the interesting part—they don’t care if
players actually use it, except maybe so they can test its
functionality.
Scientists are like friends-type socializers, in that they snoop a
lot. However, this is because they can find out more about the
virtual world, rather than finding out about the players.
Scientists use snooping like it was a documentary; friends use it
like it was a soap opera.
So the wizzes did, in fact, spend their time doing more than four
things. If players have mastery of both worlds, they can live how
they see fit. That means they have passed beyond the confines of
player development tracks (which stop after apotheosis), and
can be themselves. They can be any of the eight player types—
it’s just that these didn’t show up in the analysis. When playing
as achievers, they looked just like any other achiever; when
playing as hackers, they were mistaken for politicians; when
playing as scientists they were mixed in with socializer-type
friends. So the analysis that led to the inclusion of a third player
types dimension was, while not exactly flawed, a little
incomplete.
Well, it’s complete (for) now.
606 Chapter 5
Player-Created Content
Most content in virtual worlds is created by the development
team (to the specifications of the designers). Some is created by
the live team107. Some is created as a community statement
because the players will it108. Some is created by the players
themselves.
Players “add content” whenever they play by their in-context
actions. Anything they do that affects the virtual world or its
inhabitants is adding content. There’s always a positive effect to
this, even if the action as a whole is detrimental to the virtual
world: In the same way that any publicity is good publicity, it
can be said that any content is good content (because it’s better
than no content).
Content that arises from the natural actions of players within
the design framework is said to be emergent or self-generating.
Although designers recognize its importance, normally when
they talk about player-created content they mean content
explicitly created by players; players as designers and
developers, in other words.
Player-created content is extremely sticky, at least for those
who do the creating109. This makes it prime elder game material.
Some virtual worlds have player-created content from the very
beginning, of course; these can’t really use content creation as
an elder game, unless it’s a different kind of creation.
107 Reminder: For small-scale virtual worlds, the designers, development
team, and live team may be the same people (or even the same person).
108 These will typically commemorate virtual events (for example, A Story
About a Tree) or real-world ones (for example, 11th September 2001).
109 Commercial virtual worlds love the fact that it effectively makes artists
pay a standing charge if they want to see their own works of art.
Life in the Virtual World 607
From a designer’s perspective (especially one working on a
commercial virtual world), allowing only experienced players to
create content lessens the chances of its consisting of the lowquality, inconsistent, illiterate, out-of-context, gratuitously
profane, sporadic, incomplete, atmosphere-snapping,
unimaginative nonsense that experience has shown is inevitable
if people can (effectively) self-publish their creations. In practice,
using only experienced players does indeed raise the overall
quality of what’s created; at least they’re not going to try to
subvert, mock, or otherwise deliberately undermine the source
material. Nevertheless, their creations are still very hit and
miss; some are bad, some are good, but without training110 even
the excellent ones are prone to making the same errors that
professional designers spend all their time trying to avoid
(particularly selective depth).
In one sense, it doesn’t matter. If people like doing this, why stop
them? A single virtual world could act as a content aggregator
for thousands of individual demi-worlds in various states of
permanency. Then again, experience with TinyMUDs has shown
that virtual worlds that couple unrestricted building with
unrestricted access have tended to have short (albeit
occasionally glorious) lives. Restricting building to only the
most experienced players will remove a lot of the in-fighting
that dogs content addition, but it won’t guarantee quality.
It’s the quality issue that bites hardest. Players are harsh judges.
It doesn’t matter to them that a fellow player spent eight weeks
creating a castle in the air: If they think it sucks they’ll either
say so or keep away111. In virtual worlds where players have been
cosseted up until this point, such a reaction can be something of
110 Or recourse to books such as this one.
111 Developers are harsh judges too, but they lose their judgment rights the
moment they consent to players adding unrestricted permanent content to
their virtual worlds.
608 Chapter 5
a shock. There’s no point in complaining, either: “I’m not playing
if a character I spent two months building up can die!” may
galvanize a live team, but “I’m not playing if an area I spent two
months building isn’t played” won’t.
The answer might be to have all content vetted for quality
before it is accepted into a virtual world. Most books have one
author, but some have two, three, or more. When there are
several authors, there will usually be an editor involved to
ensure that the writing is consistent, complete, and correct.
Even books with just one author will have a publisher-appointed
editor to make sure everything fits the house style. Even this
book has such an editor (hi, Stephanie!). If content for virtual
worlds were subjected to the rigors of an editorial process, the
result would be much higher-quality material.
Unfortunately, the central reason why developers like playercreated content is not because it’s sticky, or because it works as
an elder game; they like it because it’s free. If it stops being free
(for example, because an editor is spending time looking at it), it
becomes less attractive. Why employ someone to look for
diamonds in the rough when you could employ someone else to
make those diamonds for you112?
Power to the Player
Chapter 1 stated that players can create content in a number of
ways, which can usefully be categorized as being either incontext (you put a minotaur on retainer and hire a bunch of
NPC peasants to construct your labyrinth) or out-of-context
(you manifest a minotaur and a labyrinth from nothing). People
112 A possible answer might be to charge people a fee to have someone look at
their proposed content, although this would only work for virtual worlds
with the right business model and player base. In the real world, vanity
publishing is a legitimate industry.
Life in the Virtual World 609
with the ability to make out-of-context changes are “builders.”
An analysis of who can build and how long their creations last
determines who “owns” a virtual world.
Although the switch between in-context and out-of-context
creation is a step change, on either side of the discontinuity the
power to change is more continuous. Again, although designers
do consider content creation using in-context methods to be
important—especially for the elder game—they don’t mean
that when they talk about player-created content. Playercreated content means building, and there is an escalating scale
of what can and can’t be done using it. In describing this, the
important concepts are
• Objects. Tangible virtual world entities, including
mobiles and geography.
• Functionality. Code that changes the properties of objects.
• Building blocks. Prefabricated components that are
combined to make a whole.
• Free-form. New components can be constructed from
nothing. In increasing power of expression, these can be
combined as follows:
• Objects from predefined components. A musket is a heavy,
antique, two-handed firearm. Its default weight, value,
and accuracy have these new default values: mass=8000,
value=125, ammo=ball, and so on.
• Functionality from predefined components. To load a
musket, you must put in the gunpowder, the wadding,
and the ball, in that order. Only then can you fire it.
• Free-form functionality. When you fire a musket, there’s a
chance it could explode and cause a new kind of damage
to your hands, arms, torso, and face. The noise could
deafen people close by.
• Free-form objects. There’s this entirely new object, a
grenade. When you release the trigger, you have 10
seconds before it explodes. It has entirely new properties
610 Chapter 5
for blast radius and the distance it can be thrown, with
these default values: mass=250, delay=10,
blastradius=50, and so on.
The latter two can perhaps be combined, because for
functionality to be truly free-form it would include the ability to
create objects anyway. Free-form object creation appears last
because it cannot occur without free-form functionality.
In-context object creation occurs by combining components
within the (possibly loose) constraints of a recipe, therefore it’s
not hard to extend to out-of-context creation. You may get some
fairly bizarre constructions, but they’re not going to cause the
virtual world to crash.
Functionality additions are more problematical. If they’re from
components, again your virtual world should be fairly safe. So
long as you ensure that there’s no danger of recursion (for
example, your new “load musket” function contains a call to
“load musket”113), all should be well.
Free-form functionality is dangerous. People can do things that
cause crashes (for example, dividing by zero) or hangs (for
example, non-terminating loops). Crashes can be trapped, but
the state of the virtual world after a function has aborted midway through will not necessarily be consistent. Loops can’t be
detected, only assumed: The virtual world’s engine can stop a
player-created loop after a million iterations only to screw up
everything because the critical million-and-oneth iteration
never got to execute. Resource hogging also can be a problem:
Players really will create 99 red balloons114 without a moment’s
113 Mutual recursion, while more tiresome to detect, can nevertheless be
checked for when a function is being created.
114 Or, as happened in MUD2, 99 red “baloons.”
Life in the Virtual World 611
thought, and if that works they’ll go for 1,001 Arabian Knights
(that’s humor for you).
TinyMUDs and their ilk have evolved mechanisms to prevent
these issues from becoming too problematical, using
approaches similar to those adopted in the old days of
mainframe computer timesharing systems. Crashes are handled
by the operating system’s interrupt mechanism. Hangs and
processor-hogging are handled by interrupting functions after
they have exceeded some guaranteed minimum amount of
processor time. Disk and memory usage is limited by the
number of objects (and, optionally, properties and functions)
that an individual can create in total—you have to delete old
stuff to make room for new stuff once your quota is reached.
Some virtual worlds have allocation committees to decide who
gets what resources.
The more powerful player-created content forms are prevalent
only in textual worlds. This is for practical reasons more than
anything: Everyone who plays the virtual world can by
definition type, therefore they can all create word-based
content. For graphical virtual worlds, few of the players can
draw (and, unlike the situation with writing, it’s usually
apparent even to them115 that they can’t). This isn’t to say that
their ideas are no good; it merely means that they are unable to
put them into practice. Given that most people can’t even take
professional-quality photographs, this situation would likely
prevail even were the best graphics-creation tools to be made
available to players.
For the time being, graphical worlds that want to allow some
degree of building are therefore pretty well stuck with using
115 I guess I should say “even to us” here, given the limitations of my own
illustrative capabilities.
612 Chapter 5
predefined components or restricting creation to artistically
blessed players. That’s for object creation; new functionality
would need to be hugely controlled if it were to escape being
employed as a tool for abuse—so much so that it hardly seems
worth bothering implementing.
The first 3D graphical virtual world to take player-created
content seriously is World Fusion’s Atriarch116. This Science
Fiction world has modifiable terrain and allows characters to
purchase components for the construction of buildings.
Construction is open to all who can obtain the components117
,
therefore it’s neither an end-game thing nor even out-ofcontext. Still, it’s a start118
.
Another approach is to push the problem one level back. This is
the tactic adopted by Bioware with Neverwinter Nights119. The
idea is to make the necessary development tools for virtual
worlds available to players so they can create their own
independent (in this case) games. Bioware makes its money
from selling the boxed sets and from hosting secure servers for
characters (so they can move from one mini-world to
another120). It’s a business model that has potential, but each
virtual world is limited to 64 simultaneous players, so it’s hardly
going to challenge the likes of EverQuest on that basis121
.
116 http://www.atriarch.com
117 Characters with higher-level skills have a greater variety of building
blocks available to them.
118 Some 2D graphical worlds have been doing it for years, most notably
Furcadia.
119 This 2002 game is not the Neverwinter Nights that was on AOL in the
1990s. The name is the same because it has the same license, but they’re
different products.
120 This was the plan; it has yet to come to fruition.
121 It may be possible using a zoning technique, but a better solution would be
to allow more than 64 players per virtual world in the first place. To be fair,
Life in the Virtual World 613
Also, as I said, it pushes the problem one level back. Bioware are
the developers of the game engine and they maintain network
operations for players, but that’s all. The same design and
customer service issues that apply to virtual worlds still apply,
just to the (from Bioware’s perspective) players. It’s like the way
that Dungeons & Dragons defines a gaming system but the
players themselves design and (within the confines of that
system) develop the individual game worlds; this is perhaps not
surprising, given that NWN is a D&D license and implements
the 3
rd Edition D&D rule set.
This tool-oriented attitude is set to become increasingly
important in the development of virtual worlds. If cheap
engines are available to run the virtual worlds and enough
customizable predefined artwork exists to satisfy most needs, at
a stroke the two most expensive development costs are
removed. Hobbyist designers will be able to create their own
graphical virtual worlds in the same way that for years they
have been creating textual ones. A start has been made with the
use of virtual reality VR viewing software (Active Worlds122, for
example, allows people to create custom, shared virtual spaces,
albeit not ones you can do much in except look around). If actual
game engines are made open source, we’ll see the same
codebase branching occurring that drives much textual world
development, too. There is some movement in that direction,
most notably with Nevrax’s123 decision to make its NeL (Nevrax
Library) development toolkit available under the GNU General
Public License124 (GPL). They stop short of giving their server
source code away, however.
Bioware wasn’t aiming for a “build your own virtual world” product—that
was the players’ idea.
122 http://www.activeworlds.com
123 http://www.nevrax.org
124 http://www.fsf.org/licenses/gpl.html
614 Chapter 5
A way to introduce some element of freeform player creation
while maintaining the integrity of the virtual world is to allow
link-outs to the general Internet. Depending on the degree to
which developers are willing to sacrifice design control and
immersiveness, there are many possible scenarios. Some
examples:
• Clicking on a character extracts data from a file on the
player’s own web site and presents it as a biographical
description of that character.
• Clicking on a character’s shop opens a browser window
showing the prices of the goods available for sale.
• Clicking on a player’s castle reads the definition of its
interior layout from files on its web site.
• Clicking on a magic portal teleports your character to
another virtual world entirely.
• Clicking on a web site queries the virtual world and
produces data that can be incorporated into the web site (for
example, prices, character name lists, remote views).
There is, obviously, great scope for abuse here. Instead of prices,
that browser window might contain pornography, for example.
In small, tight, role-playing virtual worlds, misbehavior can be
controlled relatively easily because players know that there is a
line of people waiting who would be only too happy to replace
someone who was spoiling things for others. In large-scale
commercial worlds, this measure of restraint is simply not
going to happen except perhaps when players have a lot to lose
(for example, in the elder game).
The Content Conundrum
Player-generated content is popular with those who design it,
aspirational for those who see it being designed, inexpensive for
developers, and it satisfies a perceived need (that is, a constant
Life in the Virtual World 615
flow on new content to prevent a virtual world from becoming
stale). Arrayed against it are concerns about quality, which,
although legitimate, can to some extent be alleviated by the
provision of design tools, documentation, testing facilities, and a
person to act as content editor. Given the advantages, why
aren’t more virtual worlds looking at this as an option?
It’s because of intellectual property (IP). People who create
content can claim certain rights over it. For in-context creations
(for example, planting differently-colored virtual flowers in such
a way that they grow to show a picture) this isn’t a problem125
because all works can be considered to be transient; you can no
more complain that someone dug up your virtual flowers than a
pavement artist can complain that the rain washed away their
chalk masterpiece. If the context of the virtual world allows it,
then by creating within that context you have no redress.
It gets much, much trickier when out-of-context creation is
considered. Different laws apply in different countries and
different states, but basically:
• If work is done honestly and for hire (that is, they were
contracted to do it) then you get the most rights. They
can ask that their name be taken off the credits, but
that’s about it. The downside is that individuals must be
paid whatever minimum wages apply for work to be
considered for hire, and “a free account” is below this
level.
• If work is bought when complete (as you might buy a
painting from a gallery), the artist retains more rights.
They could, for example, object if you used it in such a
125 Warning: I am not a lawyer. I am only giving you my interpretation of the
law as it stands here, and therefore from a legal standpoint you should
believe none of it. If you want advice about the law, seek a qualified lawyer.
This has been a public service please-don’t-sue-me announcement.
616 Chapter 5
way as to affect their reputation adversely. A
photographer might have grounds for complaint were
you to display his or her amusing images of clothed farm
animals in an exhibition about bestiality.
• Paid-for licensed content (for example, a Star Wars
franchise) will typically state the boundaries within
which content must operate. It may also give the licenseholder a veto over aspects of the virtual world’s design
(for example, no one gets to kill Luke Skywalker), but as
long as it operates within these formal constraints the
developer still has a reasonably high degree of freedom.
• If work is donated for free, the artists may have even
more rights. You might have to ask their permission
before you make any changes affecting it; in extreme
cases, this could mean all patches to the virtual world, on
the grounds that they alter the context of the work and
therefore its meaning. Also, just because they gave it to
you for free, that doesn’t mean it’s not an asset—you can
still be taxed on it.
• Content with sufficient creative input from the developer
can be considered to have joint copyright. This means
you ought to be able to do whatever you like with it,
whether the other copyright holder objects or not.
However, so can they. Disrespect them and you could
come heavily to regret it.
• Content created without any formal signing over of
ownership gives you very few rights. You can throw it
out if you don’t like it, but provided that you invited its
creation there’s little else you can do. If I put up a sign
saying that passers-by can create sculptures in my
garden, I don’t get to alter—or even necessarily move—
them. All I can do is demand that the sculptor take their
work away. A sledgehammer is not a legal option.
• Virtual worlds that are paid to show content have least
control over it; this is effectively sponsorship. If the
Brown Fizzy Drink Company pays you to put cans of
Life in the Virtual World 617
virtual Brown Fizzy Drink in your virtual world, it can
claim copyright abuse when the players buy those cans
and arrange them to look like cartoons of suggestive
parts of the human anatomy.
For non-commercial virtual worlds, none of this is normally
much of an issue (basically because they have no money and are
therefore not worth beating on126). For commercial virtual
worlds, many of whose players could well be lawyers
themselves, it’s frightening. The legal situation is by no means
clear, and nobody wants to be the one who has to empty the
bank paying lawyers’ fees to determine the precedents.
Consequently, developers are very keen not to dilute their IP
with anyone else’s127
.
Chapter 6 has more on the new legal issues that virtual worlds
are raising. Chapter 7 looks at some of the effects of playercreated content on storytelling within virtual worlds.
The Whole Picture
So as to make it easier to describe, I’ve partitioned the virtual
world design process— however, it’s actually holistic. You can’t
treat the individual aspects of design in isolation: They impact
on one another in ways that may not be immediately obvious.
Example: Crafters complain that their towns are lifeless. You
determine that this is because crafting (unlike combat) is a solo
activity. You introduce manufacturing processes that entail
126 The “normally” there is because occasionally some license-holders do let
loose the dogs of law on tribute virtual worlds, no matter how insignificant
they may be.
127 They are, of course, happy to dilute license-holders’ IP with their own.
618 Chapter 5
several characters’ working together. Players build houses in
close proximity to one another so they can get to and from the
crafting centers quickly. Towns become more vibrant as a
result. However, now that people spend more time in the towns
than in the wilderness, adventurers complain that the
wilderness is lifeless.
If you spot the problems in advance, you can tackle them as a
whole. Taking them one at a time may merely push them about.
It’s like trying to put out a burning hoop by dousing it a section
at a time—as soon as you move from one bit to the next it
catches fire again. You have to extinguish it all in one go: You
can’t solve the problem by partitioning it. Unfortunately, you’ll
always get some partitioning if the design team consists of more
than one person; balancing the various issues in this situation is
therefore even harder.
Problems due to the interaction of subsystems tend mainly to
be of the consistency, compatibility, and depth varieties; these
are, fortunately, tractable. Hard decisions have to be made,
however, when a design calls for two elements that are in direct
opposition to one another: You can have permanent death or
some form of resurrection, but you can’t have both. Indirect
contradictions can be almost as difficult to resolve while being
less easy to spot. Players want to be able to sell the goods they
manufacture at fixed prices to guarantee an income, but that
will cause lots of people to manufacture those goods, which will
raise the price of raw materials, which will reduce the income
players get from their goods.
Solutions are hard to come by. The difficulties that arise by
partitioning can be addressed by sound development
practices—communication, regular design meetings, internal
web sites, lead designer sign-off, and so on. For problems with
the design itself, the team must strive for robustness: They can
tackle whatever they notice beforehand, but once the virtual
Life in the Virtual World 619
world goes live they have to rely on the checks and balances
they build in to ensure that nothing goes horribly wrong128. Any
new design for the economy in particular is almost certain not
to work straight away, so damage-limitation code will have to
be in place ready for the inevitable tribulations.
Under- and Over-Design
Under-design is a frequent problem with virtual worlds that have
been written from scratch. Developers spend so long creating
and building the world that they forget to add any gameplay.
There’s not a lot for players to do, but lots of things for them not
to do it to. Alternatively, there is a lot to do but only to the same
things, over and over again. Either way, there simply isn’t
enough. The virtual world may be immense, beautiful, and finely
crafted, but just a shell. What players want, there’s no way they
can have: It’s like going on a shopping expedition and finding
that all the shops are closed129
.
Over-design is also a problem. In this scenario, designers go into
such detail that it overwhelms all activity. What players want to
do is lost in the noise of what they have to do to facilitate doing
it. There is a place in virtual worlds for a modicum of annoying
detail, and some players will find particular details more
irritating than do others; when they feel it’s irrelevant, though,
128 Given that checks and balances are themselves one of the most fruitful
sources of exploits for players, care must be taken in their design too.
Personally, I find that the best way to reduce exploits and design bugs is to
play devil’s advocate: How would I break the system if this or that rule were
in place? Perhaps the fact that many successful virtual world designers are
ex-hackers (in the traditional sense of the word) is not some mere accident of
history?
129 Apparent under-design can arise from unrealistic deadlines or insufficient
development staff. The designers might have done their job properly, but if
there isn’t time to implement their design fully, then what the players see
could be the same as if the designers had under-designed.
620 Chapter 5
they’ll rebel. I don’t want to have to specify the barb style, shaft
length, and flight composition/configuration of the arrows that I
buy, I just want something I can shoot in my bow!
Both over-design and under-design are the result of the same
thing: misdirected focus. The designers look at something in too
much detail: For under-design, it’s the infrastructure of the
virtual world; for over-design it’s the structure built on this
foundation.
They both illustrate another aspect of selective depth: Too much
detail in one place gives an impression of shallowness
elsewhere—even if looked at objectively the detail elsewhere is
just right.
Participatory Design
When a bunch of musicians get together and start jamming,
they’re engaging in a form of participatory design. Everyone has
ideas, which they offer up for approval to everyone else. Some
ideas work, some don’t work, and others suggest better ideas.
Computer programmers hacking together work the same way:
Someone types, other people make suggestions, changes are
made in the light of these suggestions, new suggestions are
made. It’s an editing process undertaken (ideally) by members of
a spiritual community130
.
Participatory design is good because everyone gets involved,
everyone can contribute, and everyone’s contribution is
acknowledged. It helps build a sense of community, and gives all
participants an investment in the final product. It’s ideal for
virtual worlds, then?
130 As described in Chapter 3.
Life in the Virtual World 621
At the design team level, yes. Final approval must formally be
made by one (lead) designer, but this is essentially a rubberstamping of the consensus opinion131
. Brainstorming works.
Extending participatory design beyond the design team,
however, is another matter entirely. Designers have always
been open to ideas from players once their virtual world has
entered beta testing, but what about before then? It can be very
difficult to manage; in particular, inviting prospective players of
a virtual world to participate in design increases the number of
contributors by several orders of magnitude. The design team
itself can either act in concert as a single unit, or split along
individual lines. It’ll usually be the former, because otherwise
players will try to play off designers against one another.
However, that’s not the only reason they may do it. I’ll explain….
Why would designers want to get players involved in design?
There are several laudable grounds for doing so:
• It allows players to feel they have an investment in the
virtual world.
• Ten thousand minds are better than ten.
• Designers can act as culture seeds.
• Players feel influential—they really can make a difference.
• If players understand the design process more, they won’t
make knee-jerk objections to things that superficially annoy
them.
• It draws players into a community. There also are some less
laudable reasons:
• Players can be manipulated into accepting suggestions that
they may otherwise have found unpalatable.
131 Nevertheless, if there weren’t one participant who had the ultimate veto
(that is, the lead designer), a consensus might be less easy to obtain.
622 Chapter 5
• Designers can accept “new” suggestions they had already
thought of, tricking players into thinking they’re
participating when they’re not.
• Designers get to pick the choicest fruits of players’ unpaid
endeavors.
The cynical view (and players can be very cynical) is that the
whole effort is primarily a public relations exercise. Nothing
important is ever discussed, unless it’s to get players to suggest
a preferred solution in order that criticism will be deflected
when it proves unpopular once implemented. After all, although
some players’ ideas will be excellent, most will be unusable
(jaded, inconsistent, off-the-wall, dull, unimplementable,
copyright someone else, and so on); it’s a simple matter when
posting a question to wait for the “correct” response to appear
and then seize on it as a great, original idea. Players
participating in design are at best sounding boards and at worst
betrayers of the players yet to come. In this context, it’s easier
for designers to stage-manage participatory design if they work
as a unit than if they don’t.
This scornful view of participatory design has, fortunately, yet
to gain a strong hold of the player population. Participatory
design does work, and can bring substantial benefits. It will be
used extensively for Star Wars Galaxies, where it will probably
work well. On one great test—players’ coming to understand
that newbies can’t be allowed to start with a Jedi character—its
advantages are particularly clear132
.
Its long-term future is cloudier, however. As with player content
creation, there are legal issues concerning the “rights” to
132 See Kurt D. Squire, Star Wars Galaxies: A Case Study in Participatory Design.
Joystick101.org, July 2001.
http://www.joystick101.org/story/2001/7/14/18208/3248.
Life in the Virtual World 623
aspects of a design. If a scriptwriter pitched a movie concept to
a director, they would be calling in the lawyers were that
concept to appear as a movie five years later without even a
credit (let alone payment)133. Why should a player of a virtual
world who pitches a design concept receive no recognition
(professional or monetary) when it’s used?
The response that it’s “advice freely given” only goes so far. It
may, for example, be material that already exists in some other
virtual world to which the designers of that world hold
copyright. Besides, even though the assumption that the
inclusion of your idea in a design is reward enough holds sway
at the moment, this will not necessarily always be the case.
Were a new, high-profile virtual world to pay for any playersuggested ideas it used, the situation could well change. Under
such circumstances, full participatory design could be hard to
apply effectively.
Testing a Design
Large-scale virtual worlds are designed before they are
implemented134. After implementation, play-testing can be used
to pick up the many design bugs (as well as programming bugs)
that will have crept in. However, fixing them at this stage is
expensive as it involves code changes (potentially quite large
ones). The more flaws in a design that can be fixed before
implementation, the better.
133 This is why screenplay authors register their scripts with the Writers
Guild of America.
134 Small-scale ones are usually designed while they’re being implemented,
which is a much more organic way of doing it. This can mean the overall
systems are better balanced and more stable, but it also can cause numerous
rewrites as the consequences of early bad decisions finally make their
appearance.
624 Chapter 5
How, though, do you test a design when there’s no world to test
it in?
Some facets can be tested by writing quick-and-dirty programs
or macros. An economy becomes a spreadsheet; combat
becomes a few screens of C. This helps get the numbers right,
but doesn’t say anything about the gameplay. You could end up
with a well-balanced virtual world that is an absolute chore to
play.
Surprising progress can be made by simulating the virtual
world, tabletop style. You draw out a rough map of an area, put
some tokens on it to represent PCs and monsters, then move
them around and do things like you might expect the finished
product to work. This does, however, require a discipline that is
beyond most designers; although you should really take notes
and discuss what happened after the session, most designers
are unable to prevent themselves from launching into a debate
the instant the first opportunity arises; the result is that such
pencil-and-paper simulations are not usually as productive as
they might be.
Two things I normally recommend to design teams on new
virtual worlds address these problems: dummy logs and mock
diaries. Both start from the premise of imagining that it’s some
time in the future when the virtual world has been implemented
and people are actually playing it. What will those players be
doing?
Dummy logs work better for textual worlds than graphical ones.
The idea is to write an imaginary transcript of a session as it
might be recorded by a stereotypical player. It forces the
designer to face up to concrete consequences of their decisions:
the interface, room descriptions, movement, communication,
the general atmosphere, and (crucially) what the player will be
doing. This exercise will typically expose the greatest strengths
Life in the Virtual World 625
and weaknesses of a design: The designers can then play up to
the strengths and root out the weaknesses.
For graphical worlds, dummy logs are more like dummy
storyboards, and they don’t work so well135. That said, there is
still a lot of mileage in asking the enthusiastic, wannabe
designers of new virtual worlds what they think their players
will actually be doing once the doors are open.
Mock diaries136 are like dummy logs, but they address longerterm issues. The idea is that you write a series of pretend diary
entries for a player covering several imaginary sessions,
outlining how the player’s character(s) got on and what they
did. If the entries often lack excitement or fun, or they start to
look the same, you may have discovered a potential problem.
Dummy logs and mock diaries can be constructed for a variety
of player demographics at different stages in their career. Your
first session will be different to your sessions after a week (or it
should be!), which in turn will be different to your sessions after
a month, six months, two years, and so on. By writing dummy
logs or mock diaries for these periods, you can reassure yourself
that there will be sufficient gameplay to sustain long-term play,
and that this applies to all the main player groups you’re
targeting.
Dummy logs and mock diaries have their variations. Jessica
Mulligan recommends using mock letters rather than diaries,
for example; these help the designer consider why things are
fun, instead of merely assuming that they are fun.
135 They can look better in a design document, though, if your aim is to
impress publishers into giving you their money.
136 These are also known as user stories.
626 Chapter 5
Whatever, designs must be tested. In the same way that every
time a programmer finishes a new section of code they test it, so
a designer should consider the effects of every new addition to
the virtual world. You don’t have to write out 20 new mock
diary entries every time, I hasten to add, but you should at least
consider whether it will work in the context of the rest of the
design. Although occasionally you really do have to say, “Oh,
let’s just put it in and see how it goes,” most of the time you
don’t. Think what the players, good and bad, will make of it, and
you’ll have your answer. If an idea is so original that you can’t do
this, okay, then you can put it into the design document and
hope—but be sure that if it does fail there’s nothing important
relying on its working.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 627
Chapter 6
It’s Not a Game, It’s
a…
Simulation. Or a service. Or a medium. Actually, it’s none of
these: It’s a place.
(What’s he talking about?) I’ll explain.
Points of View
Virtual worlds began as games. However, right from the
beginning—MUD1—it was clear there was more to them than
being mere games. Trying to convince people to take what they
considered to be a “game” seriously was problematical, though.
In academic circles, the only intellectually acceptable games
were traditional ones, such as chess and checkers. A new game
was not a worthwhile object of study. Playing games was a
waste of computer resources.
628 Chapter 6
Thus, virtual worlds became “simulations”—and far more
respectable!
When commercial virtual worlds made an appearance, they
became “games” again. People will pay to play games, but not
simulations. However, what computer games developers
understand by “game” is some distance from what virtual world
designers do. In particular, many games portals didn’t recognize
that these were products you had to remain involved with
indefinitely—seeds to be nurtured rather than cut flowers to be
left in a vase and forgotten. MUDs are not Quake. Industry
experts (led by Jessica Mulligan), horrified at seeing so many
people making the same mistakes again and again, rebranded
virtual worlds as “services.” The sooner developers realized that
their business primarily concerned providing a service for
players, the better.
Thankfully, the message got through. The portals (and, later,
independent developers) who maintained their virtual worlds
adequately succeeded where their predecessors had struggled.
Virtual worlds became games again—“massively multiplayer
online role-playing games.” They attracted players in
increasingly large numbers. EverQuest’s population exceeded
10% of Norway’s population. The people were coming, but
virtual world design stumbled: So-so bandwagon products were
announced that were little more than riffs on an ossified
EverQuest theme. Senior designers, with Raph Koster at the
forefront, contested this decline: Virtual worlds were a medium
through which many services (games included) might be
delivered. Like any medium, they could—and should—be used
creatively. Virtual world design was promoted as an art form,
and the ripping-off of old designs instead of pursuing
innovation was decried as a travesty. This ought to be the most
exciting period in all virtual world design history, yet the best
that people can come up with are feeble clones? Augh!
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 629
All these definitions of what virtual worlds were created for
different purposes to make different points. Knowledgeable
players may quote them in response to the don’t-get-it ridicule
of the “it’s just a game” crowd, but they’re not accurately
describing what virtual worlds really are.
Virtual worlds are places. Remember that, and many design
issues cease to be issues at all. People go to places, do things
there, and then they go home.
Virtual worlds are not simulations, because they don’t simulate
anything. They approximate aspects of reality—enough for the
purposes of immersion—but that’s all.
Virtual worlds are not services. Yes, providing access to them is
a service of critical importance—they can’t exist otherwise.
However, that doesn’t mean the virtual worlds themselves are
services. Restaurants provide a service, but the food they serve
isn’t a service1
.
Virtual worlds are not a medium. Well, let’s put it this way: If
they are, so is the real world. A medium is a channel open for
communication with a (large) number of individuals. Although
most virtual worlds do have such channels within them, they
are not intrinsically channels themselves. You can play in a
virtual world without communicating with any of the other
players2
.
1 This doesn’t mean that the continued provision of a virtual world is not a
service, of course.
2
It could be argued that designers are communicating with the players, in
the same sense that the author of a book is communicating with its readers.
This can indeed occur, even without the players’ knowledge that they’re
being given a message. However, being able to use a virtual world as a
630 Chapter 6
Most certainly of all, virtual worlds are not games. Even the
ones written to be games aren’t games. People can play games in
them, sure, and they can be set up to that end, but this merely
makes them venues. The Pasadena Rose Bowl is a stadium, not a
game.
Virtual worlds are places. They may simulate abstractions of
reality; they may be operated as a service; creating them may be
an art; people may visit them to play games. Ultimately, though,
they’re just a set of locations: places.
So, why say this now, at the beginning of Chapter 6? Wouldn’t it
have been better in Chapter 1?
Actually, I did sneak it into Chapter 1, “Introduction to Virtual
Worlds,” right at the beginning3
. The reason I’ve restated it now
is only as a consequence of showing the other ways virtual
worlds can at times profitably be visualized (that is, simulation,
service, medium, goal—there are others, these are just the bestknown). I wanted to demonstrate there are different, yet gainful,
ways to look at virtual worlds from within the field itself; yet
there are many more from without it.
Part of my original aim in writing this book was to stake out the
study (as opposed to the playing) of virtual worlds as a
worthwhile human endeavor for its own sake. Most academic
work on the subject has been undertaken by researchers from
other disciplines, who (naturally enough) have tended to
concentrate on only those particular features of virtual worlds
important to them. Nevertheless, there is a great deal of work
medium doesn’t mean it is a medium. Crops may be a medium when crop
circles appear in them, but most of the time they’re just crops.
3 To save your looking: “Virtual worlds are places where the imaginary meets
the real.”
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 631
here, and the question must be asked: Is there anything about
virtual worlds that makes them sufficiently different from other
objects of study that they merit examination from within? Or is
the whole subject catered for well enough already from
without4
?
Even assuming there is a niche for virtual worlds, that doesn’t
mean research in the area is necessarily worthwhile. A measure
of the value of a discipline is its relationship to other disciplines;
it’s an indirect form of peer review. Homeopathy, for example,
has nothing to articulate about conventional science except that
it’s missing something very important, and of mainstream
scientists only psychologists have an academic interest in
homeopathy (and that’s for reasons that won’t please
homeopaths). At the very least, this makes university courses on
homeopathy and grants to homeopaths from government
agencies rather thin on the ground. Do other disciplines view
virtual worlds as credible entities? Or are they laughing stocks,
of only passing interest to anyone except those who study
laughing stocks?
Let’s find out.
Making Sense of Virtual Worlds
Science is concerned primarily with observing, recording, and
interpreting data. The information gleaned is used to support,
4
I am not the only person to ask these questions. In particular, see Lawrie
Brown, MUDs: Serious Research Tools or Just Another Game. Technical Report
CS14/93, Department of Computer Science, University of New South Wales,
1993. http://www.unsw.adfa.edu.au/~lpb/papers/mud93.txt.
Alan Schwartz, Mud Research and Methods. 1996.
http://www.legendmud.org/Community/ lectures/mudres.html.
632 Chapter 6
modify, or deny existing theories, and occasionally to propose
new theories. In “hard” sciences, such as physics and chemistry,
hypotheses can be tested through experimentation. It is rare the
same experiment performed under the same conditions will
produce different results; in a sense, for hard science there is a
“right” answer which experimentation leads toward
discovering.
Contrastingly, “soft” science deals with facts that can and do
change depending on conditions; this is because at heart they
defer to the ever-transforming marvel that is human nature.
Quantum physics aside, in hard science there is a fixed
relationship between theory and experiment: Your opinion on
how rocks are formed may change in the light of new evidence,
but the behavior of the rocks themselves will stay the same.
With soft science, this is not the case: An anthropologist can,
merely by collecting data, change the very behavior being
observed. Similarly, although with most hard science the
experiments can be intrusive, with soft science they can’t be.
“Let’s break up this crystal to see how new crystals form from
the remains” is fine; “let’s break up this community to see how
new communities form from the remains” isn’t.
Hard science is concerned with what is real. When it comes to
virtual worlds, therefore, they don’t have a lot to say about
them. Virtual worlds may be useful as sources of inspiration,
perhaps, or as applications for physics simulations, but they
don’t raise any new issues.
Soft science, on the other hand, has a lot to say about virtual
worlds. People follow the lines established by the “great
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 633
thinkers”5
, but there is nevertheless ample opportunity for
original work. There are three basic attitudes:
• Virtual worlds are just one of many areas of interest to the
particular scientific discipline. The job of the researcher is to
make sense of virtual worlds and to address any questions
peculiar to virtual worlds that arise. Whether virtual world
designers make use of the results of any analysis isn’t as
important as how much it advances knowledge in the
subject field
• Virtual worlds are subsumed by the discipline. They are
merely exemplars of some greater area of study, and can
only really be understood in that context. Virtual worlds are
claimed as a subfield, which may or may not have something
new to say about the discipline in general.
• Virtual worlds are tools for the discipline. They can be used
to some greater purpose in their application than in
themselves. Researchers are more interested in what they
can do with them than what goes on in them.
Insofar as discussing the acceptance of virtual worlds is
concerned, the third of these is not particularly useful. This isn’t
to say there is not a lot of valuable work in the area that might
be of direct relevance to designers; indeed, the chances are that
some of it will be very helpful indeed, its being applied in nature.
However, from the point of view of assessing the status of
virtual worlds in the wider scientific community, this is not
hugely important.
5 The book that established many of these lines is Michael Benedikt (editor),
Cyberspace: First Steps. Cambridge MA, MIT Press, 1991. Although some of the
essays within its covers are excellent, many are infuriatingly but influentially
wide of the mark. This is therefore the only time I shall be mentioning it here.
634 Chapter 6
Similarly, the second attitude (virtual worlds are subsumed) also
downgrades virtual worlds. They are regarded as a
subdiscipline, rather than a discipline unto themselves. Again,
therefore, virtual worlds don’t come out of any analysis in this
context as being a particularly plausible independent field of
research.
Thus, although I’ll spend some time going over the highlights of
the second and third of these attitudes, I’ll concentrate on the
first one.
I do mean “concentrate,” too.
Geography
It might surprise many designers to discover that geographers
have an interest in virtual worlds. They do. They are interested
in spaces, they regard cyberspace as a space, and virtual worlds
are an exceptionally good example of the concept in use.
Note, there is a distinction6 between space and place. A space is
an abstraction that groups objects of a particular type under a
set of fixed rules; a place is a region (under adjacency rules) of
some space. For example, matter operating under the laws of
physics gives us the 3D space we call reality; Athens is a place in
this space. Historical events operating under the laws of
causality give us an “event space;” the French Revolution is a
place in this space. Mathematicians are particularly fond of
spaces, and will readily refer to name spaces, function spaces,
and object spaces.
Spaces are distinguished from sets by the imposition of their
governing axioms. Although it is true to say a place is a subset
6 One that is surprisingly lost on many of the theorists who dived into the
subject the moment it became trendy.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 635
of its space, these axioms mean there is far more to the
relationship than that: Things can be inferred about one place
relative to another place in the same space. This is because
places are connected to other places under adjacency rules,
through which they can influence the character of these other
places. Whether the spaces are real or imaginary, discrete or
continuous, finite or infinite, it is with the study of the rules that
underlie them that geographers are ultimately concerned.
In terms of virtual worlds, this means they are interested in:
• Virtual worlds as places (what they comprise).
• Virtual worlds as instantiated spaces (what comprises them).
• The (hopefully new) forms and relationships underlying
virtual worlds.
As places, virtual worlds constitute one small part of the data
space known as the Internet7
; other parts include the World
Wide Web, email, instant messaging, bulletin boards, and
Internet relay chat (IRC). Formally, “cyberspace” covers
anything implemented using information and communication
technologies, and therefore includes non-Internet forms of
interactive digital data transfer, such as television and
telephones. However, in practice it is with the conceptualization
of these technologies known as the Internet that most of the
research in this area concerns.
Geography begins with maps. Maps formalize the space to be
mapped, and determine the nature of the adjacency
relationships. Maps, like spaces, can be multidimensional; they
7 William Mitchell characterizes them as “neighborhoods.” William J.
Mitchell, City of Bits: Space, Place, and the Infobahn. Cambridge MA, MIT
Press, 1995.
636 Chapter 6
are only, however, abstractions of the space8
, illustrating solely
what is important from the point of view of the cartographer or
the person using the map. By making a map of a new place, a
geographer can begin to understand the nature of that place
and of the space in which it is located.
How easy the Internet is to map depends, therefore, on the
viewpoint of the cartographer. Most places on the Internet have
a real-world geographical association, in that they are located
on servers or operate through routers that have a physical
presence in the real world. Thus, one obvious way to map the
Internet is to overlay a map of the real world with the locations
of major nodes, using data traffic flows to show their
connections.
This wouldn’t be a map of the Internet, though; it would be a
map of the real-world network that supports it. The Internet
itself is a construct in the mind; to map it is to determine those
constructs common to the individuals who experience it.
Fortunately, most people have sufficient experience of real
space to conceptualize cyberspace in similar ways, guided by
the underlying structure of the data being presented. Thus, for
example, they will regard a web site as a location; a hyperlink to
another web site indicates adjacency (a browser’s Back button
making it bidirectional, at least temporarily). Distance is
identical between nodes, therefore the map will be topological
rather than spatial.
On any map of the Internet, virtual worlds are only going to
show up as different from other nodes if the cartographer
captures and reflects details that are prominent for them—
number of simultaneous connections, or period of continuous
8
If they are as fully detailed as the space, you may as well use the space itself;
this situation is known as conflation.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 637
connection. Even then, they may not have a signature any
different from an Internet radio station. A map of the Internet in
general only makes statements about the relationships between
nodes and about the variables that these relationships consider.
It can only respect variables that are meaningful across all
nodes (for example, bandwidth, uptime, router connections); the
place of virtual worlds in cyberspace can therefore be located,
but only in those terms. Unfortunately, interesting though this
information may be to geographers and network managers, it’s
not something virtual world designers are going to regret not
knowing.
Homing in on virtual worlds, though, and looking at how they
are constructed, is a different story.
In their two hugely impressive 2001 books9
, Martin Dodge and
Rob Kitchin lay out the foundations of Cyberspace Geography as
a discipline. They map everything: infrastructure, traffic, web
sites, email, bulletin boards—even some individual Usenet
threads. In so doing, they offer different ways of looking at
cyberspace for different purposes. Because virtual worlds use
richer, more intricate spatial metaphors than any other Internet
social space (IRC, chat rooms, email, and so on), one of these
purposes is virtual world design.
Beginning with MUD110
, Dodge and Kitchin examine a number
of virtual worlds, both textual and graphical. They reproduce
player-drawn maps11 of varying quality and scale, commenting
9 Martin Dodge and Rob Kitchin, Mapping Cyberspace. New York, Routledge,
2001. Martin Dodge and Rob Kitchin, Atlas of Cyberspace. London, AddisonWesley, 2001. The former has more theory, the latter more pretty maps.
10 The Atlas of Cyberspace reproduces a nodal map of MUD1 that I drew in
1983.
11 Some clients (zMUD is the best-known) constructed for use with generic
textual worlds can automap arbitrary room connections, exploring a virtual
638 Chapter 6
on the ability of each to convey in a clear manner the salient
points that would be of interest to users12. They conclude that
there are four main categories of space in a virtual world:
• A core public space, accessible to all characters.
• Private spaces, accessible only to individual characters,
but directly connected to the core space.
• Private spaces that are disconnected from the core
space—that is, only accessible using teleportation.
• Multi-scale spaces that break the rules of realism—for
example, a house inside a grandfather clock.
The prevalence of private spaces will, of course, be related to the
number of people able to build them13; there will be more in a
MOO than in a DikuMUD, for example14. In builder-heavy
worlds, spaces more distant from the core in spatial terms will
be more distant in thematic terms, too.
Dodge and Kitchin examine other ways to map virtual worlds,
apart from this “physical” approach. They reproduce maps
created from data gathered by a LambdaMOO bot15 concerning
the social interactions of virtual worlds; these enable the trained
eye to pick out cliques and other social groupings among
players.
world exhaustively to produce an accurate map.
http://www.zuggsoft.com/zmud/zmudinfo.htm.
12 Note that for players, constructing a map can be a worthwhile exercise
unto itself. If you make your own map of a virtual world, you will end up with
a greater understanding of that world than if you use someone else’s.
13 And also on what they plan on getting up to in those private spaces.
14 Graphical worlds are coming to realize the importance of customized
private spaces, too. EverQuest 2, for example, has pocket zones to serve this
purpose.
15 Michael Kearns and Charles Lee Isbell Jr.’s Cabot.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 639
An important consideration for any kind of space is navigation:
How do you get from one location to another (whether this
“location” is a point, a person, or a web page)? This is, after all,
one of the primary reasons people use maps. The classic work
on navigation by individuals is Kevin Lynch’s The Image of the
City16, which describes how people build up a cognitive map of
their environment and use it (among other things) to get from
place to place. Lynch demonstrated that this “environmental
image” is constructed in terms of five features:
• Nodes are distinct locations people can enter
• Paths are channels connecting nodes, along which people
travel.
• Edges are borders that are difficult or impossible to cross.
• Districts are parts of the environment that share a common
theme, look, or character. “The old town” or “the docks”
would count as districts.
• Landmarks are strong reference points. The more important
an object is, the more likely it is to be a point of reference.
Being visible from far away is, in this context, considerably
important.
Note these vary from person to person and from context to
context. A path for a motorist may be an edge for a pedestrian; a
junction may be a landmark for one, but not the other.
Although Lynch’s work concerned real-world cities, its
principles can often be extended to environments in general.
This was demonstrated categorically for textual virtual worlds
in Andreas Dieberger’s 1994 Ph.D. thesis17, using results from
16 Kevin Lynch, The Image of the City. Cambridge MA, MIT Press, 1960.
17 Andreas Dieberger, Navigation in Textual Virtual Environments using a City
Metaphor. Faculty of Technology and Sciences, Vienna University of
Technology, 1994. http://www.lcc.gatech.edu/~dieberger/Thesis/Thesis.html.
640 Chapter 6
two questionnaire surveys undertaken by Jolanda Tromp18
.
Players of textual worlds have particular problems in that
• There are holes in the virtual world, where there “ought
to be” rooms but there aren’t.
• Rooms are of different sizes, which players perceive only
through their descriptions. A room that would take up
several squares on a grid layout can still seem “small” to
players.
• Exits are limited to eight compass points, plus: nonstandard contextual exits such as “out;” hidden exits you
have to work to discover; teleport exits that look like
normal ones.
• There are unconnected rooms accessible only by teleport.
Some exist for special purposes (for example, the virtual
world’s mailing system), but this doesn’t have to be the
case.
• Mazes that are fiendishly difficult to solve are not
fiendishly difficult to construct.
• Z-axis movement (steps, ladders, cliffs, gradients, and so
on) are hard to realize effectively.
• Distance is perceived in terms of time taken to traverse
between rooms. Although this is related to the number of
rooms passed through, inconveniences like doors and
monsters can make a journey seem longer.
Nevertheless, even given these problems, Lynch’s model applies.
Nodes are rooms. Major landmarks are rooms containing some
special functionality or (very interestingly) ones where there
tend to be other players. Minor landmarks are often where
people find unidirectional movement ends—for example, the
18 Jolanda G. Tromp, Results of Two Surveys About Spatial Perception and
Navigation of a Text-Based Spatial Interface. University of Amsterdam, 1993.
http://www.cms.dmu.ac.uk/~cph/VR/JolaPaper/jola.html.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 641
place where if you keep going east you suddenly find a wall that
stops further travel in that direction. Paths are room exits or
chains of rooms that get you from one landmark to another.
Districts are used, but with theme being more important than
look. Edges are only implied through room descriptions and the
lack of exits at the “edge,” but rooms that have them will usually
be on paths or act as landmarks.
Bearing this in mind, therefore, designers of virtual worlds
should be able to construct their virtual worlds in such a way as
to make them easier for players to navigate. Obvious nodes,
paths, edges, districts, and (especially) landmarks should be
provided to give players a sense of where they are and how to
get to where they want to go; a sense of place, in other words.
Although this work was undertaken for textual worlds,
Dieberger noted that graphical worlds (which have few of the
“unrealistic” spatial problems that textual worlds do) were even
more amenable to this kind of analysis. Designers should not
simply assume people will find things to use as landmarks: They
should follow the lead of urban planners and actually provide
them. Furthermore, they should provide them in a structured
manner, rather than as an accident of geography19. In textual
virtual worlds, they can go one step further and provide
landmark-seeking commands20
.
19 To discover more about the application of architectural design principles
for the benefit of virtual worlds and other Internet spaces, see Judith S.
Donath, Inhabiting the Virtual City: The Design of Social Environments for
Electronic Communities. School of Architecture and Planning, MIT, 1997.
http://smg.media.mit.edu/people/Judith/Thesis/.
20 MUD1 had a “swamp” command, which moved players one room in the
direction of the swamp from (almost) anywhere. The swamp was a major
landmark because it’s where players had to go to cash treasure in for
experience points.
642 Chapter 6
Unrestricted teleportation is perhaps the greatest threat to the
geographical integrity of a virtual world, as it breaks all the
adjacency rules that make a space anything other than a set of
points. Designers should therefore be careful to ensure it isn’t
overdone. The other major problem (which affects textual
worlds more than graphical ones) is the virtual world’s
geography should be relatively stable. Experienced players don’t
want to have to check all their maps every time there’s an
update “just in case” the designers added a few new rooms
somewhere off the beaten track, and inexperienced players will
think you’re playing with their heads.
Geographers look at how space appears and how people
(through their maps) visualize it; although they can offer up
general principles relating to what makes a geography
understandable and useful, they are not immediately concerned
with designing spaces themselves. This may change if
geographers seize on virtual worlds as test-beds for their
theories of geography; geographers are already being called on
to advise in the construction of geographically correct virtual
worlds21
.
There is, however, a group of people for whom the design of
space is precisely their main interest: architects.
Architecture
Architects think about spaces for reasons that differ from those
of geographers. They are interested in the physical construction
of objects within a space, yes, but also in the functional and
aesthetic values they can project through such a construction.
21 Christian Carazo-Chandler, Conceptualising Geography in a Virtual World
Environment. http://cybergeography.hypermart.net/Conceptualising
Geography in a Virtual World Environment.doc.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 643
In the real world, buildings are designed to fulfill some purpose.
This purpose (and the proposed budget) provides the hard
parameters within which architects operate. What about
cyberspace, though? It’s clearly a space, but then so is the space
of possible solutions to a crossword puzzle; architects would not
be concerned with the latter, so why should they be concerned
with the former?
The answer is that cyberspace in general, and virtual worlds in
particular, share with the physical world features important to
architects that more abstract spaces do not. In a good
introduction22 to these issues, Anna Cicognani derives five
interrelated characteristics that describe what makes a space
interesting to architects:
• Possibility of action. It must be possible to effect changes of
state within the space.
• Livability. It must be possible to dwell in the space. This
implies that the space can be organized into structures.
• Construction of communities. The space must be social, in that
communities should be able to develop by acting on the
space while existing external to it.
• Time organization. Only through alterations to space can
changes in time be detected, therefore the space must be
organized such that these changes can be perceived in a
manner that allows them to be mapped onto some
consistent (“actual”) time organization.
• Spatial organization. It must be possible to orchestrate the
space into structures to allow it to be worked with and
studied.
22 Anna Cicognani, On the Linguistic Nature of Cyberspace and Virtual
Communities. Virtual Reality Society Journal Vol. 3(1) 25-33, Springer-Verlag,
1998. http://www.arch.usyd.edu.au/~anna/papers/ language.pdf.
644 Chapter 6
Architecture is about organizing space (or, more specifically,
about arranging things into space), therefore of these conditions
the fifth is the most important. Virtual worlds satisfy all the
criteria.
Some of the same observations about the nature of virtual
spaces that were made by geographers Dodge and Kitchin also
show up in architect Peter Anders’s book Envisioning
Cyberspace23; this also has large tracts devoted to virtual worlds,
and should be on the bookshelf of anyone who takes the design
of virtual worlds seriously. Anders advances a thesis that
certain types of space are bad for the well-being of the virtual
world as a whole (at least if it’s a textual world). Textual worlds
use episodic movement rather than dynamic movement—that
is, you move a room at a time24. This contradicts any illusion of
conventional “real” space, but is nevertheless so compelling that
it forms the basis for all the features that make the virtual world
a “world.” The reason it can do this is because players are willing
to discard their disbelief, and buy into it. This means they trust
the designer to maintain their faith; if the designer pops them
out of their immersion, it amounts to nothing less than a
betrayal.
Virtual worlds where players can build, transfer this trust to the
builders. Unfortunately, many builders do betray it (largely
through ignorance or incompetence). As Dieberger also noticed,
there will be rooms with non-intuitive connections, “black hole”
rooms you can enter but can’t leave, and areas unlinked from
the “orientation space” where players enter the virtual world.
23 Peter Anders, Envisioning Cyberspace: Designing 3D Electronic Spaces. New
York, McGraw-Hill, 1998.
24 Graphical worlds with a zone of resolution also do this—that is, ones that
only render objects that are present within a certain range. Island of Kesmai
and AlphaWorld (the name of the main Active Worlds environment) are
examples of such worlds.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 645
Unsuccessful rooms that people never visit will be abandoned;
anyone who does enter them will find nothing of interest—not
even other characters—thereby contributing to an overall sense
that the virtual world is “empty.” Although the central space is
generally occupied, the further away from it you are the less
likely you are to meet anyone by chance. This robs the virtual
world of the spontaneous interaction that gives it much of its
immediacy. Everything seems static.
Anders notes one of the problems is that people will usually
teleport to locations if they can, rather than walk there. This
means they are unlikely to bump into people on the way, of
course, but it also suggests they won’t explore. In graphical
worlds, you can “see” into adjacent locations, and go over to look
at anything that seems interesting; in textual ones, rooms act as
their own boundaries, so players are blind with respect to the
contents of adjacent rooms25. If people don’t explore, they have
less chance of coming across anything (or anyone) new.
Exploration can help socialization.
To give players more opportunity to meet people, Anders
therefore makes the following recommendations:
• Restrict teleporting.
• Make all private room, link into the general space.
• Have multiple entrance points, for multiple local hangouts.
25 To be fair, some textual worlds do allow you to look into adjacent rooms
(assuming line-of-sight). This uses almost the same room/room links as
movement, but will have exceptions. For example, you can’t look through fog
even though you can walk through it, and you can’t walk across a raging
river even though you can look across it. Of course, this is still an active
thing—you deliberately have to look to see, it doesn’t “catch your eye” in the
background like it might in a graphical world.
646 Chapter 6
Although these only officially work for textual worlds with a lot
of building, they’re sound advice for all other virtual worlds, too.
The fewer anomalies that players must suffer to experience a
virtual world, the better; the more opportunities to meet one
another the better, too26
.
Anders makes a distinction between textual and graphical
virtual world design because he sees the former as using
cognition rather than perception; information is conveyed in
symbols rather than in senses, and space is inferred rather than
experienced. One way to interpret this is that for graphical
worlds you feel that you are part of the environment, whereas
for textual worlds you feel that the environment is part of you.
This may partly explain the difference in attraction of the two
systems.
Although real-life architecture and virtual world architecture
are not the same27, the desire of virtual world designers to
mimic aspects of reality (for reasons of immersion) means that
many of the processes involved are the same, particularly where
there are social concerns. Architects are interested in virtual
worlds, and virtual world designers should be interested in
architecture.
Social concerns, of course, arise from the presence of large
numbers of people in virtual worlds. Where there are people,
26 This isn’t a call for the removal of all barriers to communication, otherwise
what would result would be a simple IRC-like channel. As Tom Erikson
points out, the spatial constraints that virtual worlds impose can be the
dynamos that generate activity. Thomas Erikson, From Interface to Interplace:
The Spatial Environment as a Medium for Interaction. Elba Italy, Proceedings
Conference on Spatial Information Theory, 1993.
http://www.pliant.org/personal/Tom_Erikson/Interplace.html.
27 For a useful overview, see Anna Cicognani, Architectural Design for Online
Environments. http://www.arch.usyd.edu.au/~anna/papers/kolko.pdf.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 647
there will always be other people willing to study those people.
When the people share a space—or perceive that they do28—it’s
time to call in the anthropologists.
Anthropology
The discipline of science concerned with the study of other
cultures is anthropology. With ever-dwindling numbers of
unstudied cultures, it is unsurprising that anthropologists
should take an interest whenever new cultures develop on their
doorstep (as they have in virtual worlds). That virtual worlds
have not been flooded with anthropologists, however, can
perhaps be ascribed to three factors:
• The traditional view that virtual worlds are games and
therefore not worthy of serious study29
.
• The fieldwork for virtual worlds isn’t as exotic and exciting
as that promised by the real world.
• These cultures are so new, they could well be considered to
be a subculture of that of the anthropologist, which makes
their study sociology rather than anthropology.
Nevertheless, formal anthropological work has been undertaken
for virtual worlds, some of it producing results of interest to
virtual world designers.
28 Jennifer A. Clodius, Concepts of Space and Place in a Virtual Community.
1994.
29 Scrupulous open-mindedness about other cultures relative to their own is
practically institutional among anthropologists, therefore they are far less
susceptible to this kind of prejudgment than most other researchers.
However, an overabundance of hastily written undergraduate papers on the
subject in the 1990s may have made professors more wary about virtual
worlds than they might otherwise have been.
648 Chapter 6
There are several subfields of anthropology, not all of which are
applicable to virtual worlds. In his excellent modern
anthropology textbook30, Daniel Bates lists these as
• Biological anthropology. Also known as physical
anthropology, this concerns the study of biological
variations among populations. It has virtually no
applicability in the context of virtual worlds31
.
• Archaeology. Archaeologists investigate the relationship
between the artifacts people create and their behavior.
This is unlikely to be applied to virtual worlds for many
years, as the people who created the artifacts still live
and their behavior can be assessed directly rather than
deduced from what survives them.
• Linguistic anthropology. Linguistic anthropologists study
the way language is constructed and used, and from this
come to understand the nature of the culture it
supports32
.
• Cultural anthropology. This is what everyone generally
thinks of by “anthropology”: going out and living among
a population for months on end, observing and recording
aspects of their everyday life.
There are, furthermore, two different results of anthropological
study. The first is the ethnography: This is a detailed
examination of an individual culture that is purely descriptive;
it paints a detailed picture of a culture, but offers no
30 Daniel G. Bates, Cultural Anthropology. Needham Heights MA, Allyn &
Bacon, 1996.
31 It could be used to inform the design of the cultural set-up for newly
invented character races, but no one seems yet to have done this in earnest.
32 The study of the way individuals adapt their language to different social
circumstances and needs is called sociolinguistics. It’s a specialist subfield of
linguistic anthropology which, as we shall see, finds virtual worlds
particularly appealing.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 649
interpretation of the results. An ethnology, on the other hand,
attempts to discern cultural patterns of behavior from the
ethnographical data. Ethnographies describe the way things
are; ethnologies explain why things are the way things are.
Ethnographic data usually begins with a demographic study of a
population to determine where the cultural boundaries lie. In
1996, for example, Gamespot undertook an influential survey33
of players of multi-player online games of all kinds; it uncovered
different patterns of play for players of different types of games.
Although useful for identifying possible areas that may be
worthwhile as subjects for individual study, this kind of data
snapshot has only a limited shelf life if the rate of change of
player behavior is unsettled34
.
Virtual worlds, as (in this context) a subfield of multi-player
computer games, do have a long enough history to have
achieved some measure of stability. The earliest serious attempt
by a non-player to collect ethnographic data about virtual
worlds only was Herbert Emert’s 1993 survey35, which was
formally an investigation into the social effects that playing in
virtual worlds had on the players themselves. It succeeded in
discerning the different attitudes players had, particularly in
why they played (that is, the presence of different player types).
Unfortunately, early surveys (and there were several that
followed—Usenet requests for people to respond to
questionnaires were a seasonal event at term paper time for
several years) regarded the players of virtual worlds as a single
community—something that hadn’t been true since the days of
MUD1 (and even that had a distinction between its “internal”
33 http://www.gamespot.com/features/olsurvey/index.htm
34 Many of the industry-leading companies named in the Gamespot study
were to fold in the five years that followed it.
35 http://www.tao.ca/~peter/athesis/MUDs/emert93.txt
650 Chapter 6
and “external” players, who played at different times of the day
and rarely overlapped). Later studies36 by non-players made a
distinction between “adventure” and “social” virtual worlds, but
still treated them as if they were communities as a whole.
Some aspects of virtual world culture are universal, of course,
and others aren’t but are prevalent in many related worlds. This
degree of homogeneity is caused by inheritance from parent
worlds and the occasional arrival of immigrant players bringing
ideas from more distantly related worlds. Nevertheless,
individual virtual worlds must be regarded as the entities in
which values are passed from one generation of players to the
next, and it is therefore individual virtual worlds that
anthropologists must study if they are to learn about these
cultures.
Anthropologists studying virtual worlds will stay in a single one
over time in the same way that in the real world they would stay
in a single village. Expeditions to neighboring “villages” to
examine differences and similarities of behavior are possible,
but on the whole the research is based in one place.
It is interesting to consider whether large-scale virtual worlds
that exist in multiple simultaneous incarnations have different
cultures across those incarnations. The evidence seems to
suggest that although there may be differences when particular
servers have been set up to attract a particular playing style (for
example, PvP is allowed or not), in general the culture seems to
be fairly uniform. In The Norrathian Scrolls (Nick Yee’s
exhaustive demographic study of EverQuest), no strange
36 I have hard copies of two such surveys, one from the University of Vienna
and one from the Friedrich Schiller University of Jena, both of which show
interesting results but neither of which bears their author’s name. They’ve
disappeared from the web, too, so I can’t really say much about them here.
Sorry!
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 651
age/gender combinations were discerned for individual shards;
the composition of player populations was pretty much the
same from one to the next. This doesn’t mean that their players
would necessarily behave the same way, of course, but it
suggests that if they don’t conform, then their behavior is not
sufficiently outré to affect overall population balance.
Data gathering for individual virtual worlds has been conducted
either for administrative use only or as a means to some nonanthropological end. Indeed, researchers who want to look at
virtual worlds for one main purpose will often pick a particular
one and study it in great depth. This can be viewed as a form of
anthropological study. Dieberger’s work on navigation was
focused entirely on Igor MUD37, for example, and Pargman’s
examination of community management arose from a study of
SvenskMud38. There have, however, been anthropological studies
by anthropologists, for anthropologists, of virtual worlds.
The first of these was Michael Rosenberg’s 1992 ethnography39
of WolfMOO. Rosenberg joined this virtual world as a
participant observer, and spent several weeks of regular
evening play getting to know and understand it. Although his
report only scratches the surface of what is possible, it
nevertheless sets a high standard. Reading it, you get a good
sense of what WolfMOO was about and how its players behaved;
it’s like a first-person travel guide to a distant city that gets the
facts over without the hyperbole. The value of this kind of work
is perhaps made all the more clear by the fact WolfMOO is no
37 http://www.igormud.org:1703/
38 http://svmud.lysator.liu.se
39 Michael S. Rosenberg, Virtual Reality: Reflections of Life, Dreams, and
Technology. An Ethnography of a Computer Society. 1992.
http://www.eff.org/Net_culture/MOO_MUD_IRC/
rosenberg_vr_reflections.paper.
652 Chapter 6
more; Rosenberg’s ethnography is all that remains to reflect the
culture that once was.
John Masterson’s 1994 ethnography40 of Ancient Anguish41
draws directly on Rosenberg’s work, although it’s less formal
and more speculative in places. He played Ancient Anguish for
two years before writing his (unpublished, but widely read)
paper. Many of his observations would be regarded as
unexceptional in today’s virtual worlds, but of course part of the
reason for this is because pioneers like he and Rosenberg made
those observations in the first place.
Masterson put his field experience of Ancient Anguish to further
good use, writing a 1996 master’s thesis42 on the sociolinguistics
of virtual worlds. In addition to Ancient Anguish, he also spent
extended periods in two other adventure-oriented virtual
worlds43 for comparison: Paradox II and TrekMUSE44. For
linguistic anthropologists, virtual worlds (especially textual
ones) are unusual because people write in them as if they were
speaking. Formally, linguistic anthropology concerns language
that isn’t written down, so on the face of it textual
communication via a keyboard ought to be disqualified. It’s the
fact the players consider themselves to be speaking that
validates it; their words are as ephemeral as spoken words are
40 John T. Masterson III, Ethnography of a Virtual Society, or How a Gangling,
Wiry Half-Elf Found a Way to Fit In. 1994.
ftp://ftp.game.org/pub/mud/text/research/ethno.txt.
41 http://ancient.anguish.org
42 John T. Masterson III, Nonverbal Communication in Text Based Virtual
Realities. University of Montana, 1996.
http://www.johnmasterson.com/thesis/.
43 Around 2,000 hours in total over the three.
44 http://www.trekmuse.org/
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 653
in real life45. Logging these communications is more like
recording conversations than it is reading a book.
Linguistic anthropologists have looked at non-verbal
communication in some detail. In real life, people use many
physical gestures other than mere speech while
communicating. Bowing is so ingrained in Japanese culture, for
example, that people will often do so to individuals with whom
they are communicating by telephone. Picking up on the
nuances of this kind can be very difficult for anthropologists,
therefore it’s very useful for them to be able to look at virtual
worlds where all communication is by text only— there’s only
one channel to examine. The first person to examine this in
detail was Lynn Cherny, who in an 11-month study46 of
ElseMOO47 categorized five different kinds of emote command
as mechanisms for conveying non-verbal communication:
• Conventional action. These are actions that have a practical
effect, much like any regular action. Example: “Name waves.”
• Back channels. These occur during conversations, indicating
continued attention/ understanding. Example: “Name nods.”
• Byplay. Jocular meta-comments on conversation. Example:
“Name dusts off some adjectives.”
• Narration. Comments usually related to real-life events, often
indicating boredom. Example: “Name munches on a ketchup
sandwich.”
45 Jennifer A. Clodius, Orality in a Text-Based Community. 1996.
http://dragonmud.org/people/jen/ oral.html.
46 Lynn Cherny, The Modal Complexity of Speech Events in a Social MUD.
Stanford University, 1995.
http://bhasha.stanford.edu/~cherny/ejc.txt.
47 This is not its real name; Cherny uses pseudonyms to protect the integrity
of the MOOs she studies.
654 Chapter 6
• Exposition. Statements describing internal or factual
background. Unlike the other four categories, these can be in
any tense. Example: “Name hated the movie.”
Influential though this was, Cherny was later to surpass herself
with a full-blown linguistic ethnography48 of ElseMOO,
exhibiting the same kind of depth and scholarship seen in any
other major sociolinguistic work. It’s very impressive; the
discussion of the ethics of studying virtual communities is
worth the cover price alone49
.
More pragmatic virtual world designers than I may wonder
what there is in all this for them. Clearly, the more you know
about virtual worlds, the better informed you are when
designing one; however, why should sociolinguistic studies of
particular virtual worlds be compelling reading? The potential
of virtual worlds for sociolinguists has been apparent since EvaLise Carlstrom’s 1992 linguistic ethnography50 of LambdaMOO;
is there any traffic of useful information the other way, though?
There is, yes; or rather, there would be if designers were to take
the time to look. Anthropologists offer a unique opportunity for
designers to see themselves through the trained eyes of others;
it is foolhardy to ignore the objective portrait of themselves that
results. Anthropologists may not like it (they try to avoid
altering any culture they are studying, so for members of that
48 Lynn Cherny, Conversation and Community: Chat in a Virtual World.
Stanford, CSLI, 1999.
49 As is the chapter on communities, which I referred to in Chapter 3,
“Players.”
50 Eva-Lise Carlstrom, Better Living Through Languages: The Communicative
Implications of a Text-Only Virtual Environment, or Welcome to LambdaMOO!.
Grinnell College, 1992.
ftp://ftp.game.org/pub/mud/text/research/communicative.txt.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 655
culture to act on an ethnography is anathema), but that’s their
problem.
There are practical advantages, too. Take sociolinguistics: By
looking at why people use the emotes they do, it is possible for
anthropologists to draw up structured lists of commands that
address these needs; virtual world designers have previously
had to evolve such lists through requests from players (plus
hours of thumbing through a thesaurus). Such emote lists are
only of marginal use in textual worlds, where exhaustive sets of
emotes have accrued over the years sufficient to cover all
situations. For designers of graphical virtual worlds, though,
these sets are unusable. It may only take seconds to add a new
emote to a textual world, but for graphical worlds it’s a nontrivial exercise—it could mean a trip to the motion capture
studio in some circumstances (expensive enough in itself, but
ruinously so when it must be modified for all valid skeleton
types). It’s important that players of graphical virtual worlds
have available to them the same non-verbal forms of
communication they can use in real life, but graphical worlds
aren’t as expressive as textual ones in this regard. Players of
graphical worlds can’t use free-form emotes like players of
textual worlds do (except textually), and neither they can they
expect every fixed-form emote to exist—it’s too expensive. Only
some emotes can be implemented: The question is, which ones?
Sociolinguistics provides some of the answers. Rather than
picking what players say they want, or what the designers think
the players want, it’s possible to look at what players actually
use and what they need to know is available (whether or not
they use it). This means players can get on with the business of
communicating, instead of having to attribute new meaning to
bizarre combinations of whatever emotes the designers have
actually provided.
656 Chapter 6
This is just one example of where linguistic anthropology can be
of possible use to virtual world designers; if you read Cherny’s
or Masterson’s work, others will present themselves, too.
As for cultural anthropology, that also has things to say about
virtual world design. Jen Clodius is a cultural anthropologist
who immersed herself in DragonMUD51 (the oldest continuously
running TinyMUD) so extensively it could almost be said she
“went native.” In a series of short papers, some of which have
already been cited here, she made a number of penetrating
insights about why people in virtual worlds do what they do; in
this sense, her work is ethnology rather than ethnography. For
example, in a 1996 paper52 she describes how the players of
DragonMUD developed and maintained a community of interest,
touching on issues of identity construction to suggest why this
may be. Developers of large-scale virtual worlds who rake in
several million dollars in subscriptions monthly would do well
to engage people such as Clodius to tell them how their
community works, instead of operating in the dark (or worse,
overreacting to the unrepresentative minorities who often
dominate the public forums).
Ethnologies teach us about other cultures. By comparing
behavioral similarities across many cultures, it is possible to
discern universal patterns that can then be sought in more
diverse cultures, including our own. This is, for example, how
Joseph Campbell formalized the hero’s journey and why George
Lucas was then able to use it for Star Wars (of which the virtual
world Star Wars Galaxies is a direct result).
51 http://www.dragonmud.org
52 Jennifer A. Clodius, Creating a Community of Interest: “Self” and “Other” on
DragonMUD. 1996.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 657
The first major thesis53 about virtual worlds, written by Liz Reid
in 1994, was an attempt to identify patterns of cultural
formation common to virtual worlds. She traced behavioral
tropes back to the mechanisms that underlie virtual worlds,
rather than the culture of the people who played them. For
example: The reason people are more open in virtual worlds
than they are in the real one is because of the anonymity virtual
worlds afford them; it’s not because they come from a realworld society that emphasizes openness. Players have needs
that virtual worlds can fulfill; however, if they are to satisfy
those needs then they must live alongside other players. This
implies they must develop a set of mutual understandings that
support both their goals and their relationships; these feed back
to provide a context to give meaning to their actions (and
themselves). These are the cultures of virtual worlds.
Reid is right: Virtual world cultures are formed by the needs of
the players, acting under environmental conditions both
inherent to the access medium and provided by the virtual
world’s designers. I would add, however, that these cultures
rarely form spontaneously any more: It is possible to shape a
culture in advance of its creation, because much of what new
players learn about a virtual world they pick up from existing
players. The original, seeding players therefore have a strong
influence on the direction a culture takes; as most of these
players will have played other virtual worlds beforehand, so
some aspects of culture are passed from virtual world to virtual
world to virtual world. As an illustration, consider whether the
attitude to cross-gender play in virtual worlds would be the
same today had they been invented in a right-wing, reactionary
53 Elizabeth Reid, Cultural Formations in Text-Based Virtual Realities.
Department of English, University of Melbourne, 1994.
ftp://ftp.ee.mu.oz.au/papers/emr/cult-form.ps.
658 Chapter 6
college in the Deep South rather than a British university
notorious for its left-wing politics54
.
Were virtual worlds to be created from nothing, quite different
cultures could develop as per Reid; nowadays, though, much
culture is passed on and therefore evolves, rather than forms.
Furthermore, as increasing numbers of people become involved
with the Internet, virtual communities are starting to have an
impact on real-world ones. Given that (as always) the virtual is
governed by the real, it therefore makes sense to suppose that
to some degree at least, virtual society can be regarded as a
subclass of society as a whole.
This brings us to our next topic: sociology.
Sociology
Sociology is the study of the organization, functioning, and
development of human societies. It is very closely related to
anthropology; basically, sociologists and anthropologists got to
pretty well the same place but came from different starting
points. Indeed, an excellent way to annoy a sociologist or
anthropologist is to ask what the difference is between the two
disciplines. It essentially boils down to three things:
• Sociologists study only industrial societies, whereas
anthropologists concentrate on (but don’t restrict
themselves to) pre-industrial societies.
• Anthropologists are big on qualitative methods,
particularly participant observation (that is, immersing
oneself in a society to learn about its ways). Sociologists
54 Cross-gender play would still have occurred, because it happens in tabletop role-playing games. Whether it would have been as commonplace as it is
now is a cultural issue.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 659
are big on quantitative methods, especially making
deductions from statistics.
• They have different traditions, and follow the theories of
different individuals.
More and more, however, the distinction is becoming blurred.
For example, Reed Riner and Jen Clodius55 explored the idea of
using a virtual world predictively, to see how people might
behave in a future Mars settlement; whether this qualifies as
sociology or anthropology is anyone’s guess! My own personal
definition of the difference is that anthropologists study other
peoples, whereas sociologists study their own. I’m neither an
anthropologist nor a sociologist, though, so feel free to ignore
this.
So what do sociologists have to say about virtual worlds?
Well, it’s actually quite hard to pin down. There seem to be four
areas of activity56, as follows:
• Cyberculture
• Computer-Mediated Communication (CMC)
• Gender Studies
• General Sociology
Cyberculture is an interdisciplinary area concerning the study of
online culture. Unfortunately (from the point of view of this
book), it makes little distinction between virtual worlds and
other sources of online culture. It’s basically a catchall for people
55 Reed D. Riner and Jennifer A. Clodius, Simulating Future Histories: The NAU
Solar System Simulation & Mars Settlement. Anthropology & Education
Quarterly Vol. 26(I):95-104, Spring 1995.
http://dragonmud.com/people/jen/solsys.html.
56 Five, if you include undergraduates who write essays on the subject
because they were playing games when they should have been working.
660 Chapter 6
who want to write about stuff with an Internet connection but
are unable to do so within the traditional limits of their chosen
field. Although some of the best books on virtual worlds I’ve
found were stocked under “cyberculture” at the bookstore, most
of what’s there typically concerns something else.
Cyberculture also suffers from an overly hip and trendy image,
attracting a disproportionate number of authors who want to be
seen to be at the cutting edge of the social sciences and are
willing to pull out every polysyllabic word in their vocabulary to
do so. Some of the best (and, from the perspective just
described, worst) early papers on cyberculture were collected in
The Cybercultures Reader57; if you are interested in learning
about the subject, this is as good a place as any to start.
Although I refer to some of these papers later under more
specific subheadings, I shall not, however, be examining
cyberculture itself in further detail; it’s simply too amorphous.
CMC and gender studies I do look at, as they have much to say
about virtual worlds; so much, in fact, that they get their own
sections (although CMC doesn’t get as much as gender studies).
This leaves us with general sociology. Despite the presence of
virtual worlds on the syllabus of many university sociology
courses, in terms of actual substance this isn’t actually a lot58
.
Nevertheless, the paper that introduced sociologists to virtual
worlds is (by virtue of this fact) one of the most important ever
written on the subject: Pavel Curtis’s Mudding: Social Phenomena
in Text-Based Virtual Realities59. In this, Curtis described
57 David Bell and Barbara M. Kennedy (editors), The Cybercultures Reader. New
York, Routledge, 2000.
58 Alternatively, and perhaps more likely, it’s my ability to track down papers
from alien disciplines that is at fault.
59 Pavel Curtis, Mudding: Social Phenomena in Text-Based Virtual Realities.
Berkeley, Proceedings Conference on Directions and Implications of Advanced
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 661
observations made as a result of his experience as maintainer of
LambdaMOO at Xerox PARC. After describing virtual worlds60
,
he noted the following:
• Around 90% of LambdaMOO’s players connected from
colleges and universities.
• At most 50% of the players had a computer science
background.
• Around 70% of the players were male.
• A common phenomenon is that some males play female
characters.
• Female characters are subject both to harassment and
special (favorable) treatment.
• Although player names are varied, their descriptions are not.
Characters who are “mysterious, but unmistakably
powerful” are relatively common.
• Player anonymity is the most significant social factor in
virtual worlds. Players do not feel at risk and are
consequently less inhibited than in real life. Some of this
disinhibition is manifested by irresponsibility, rudeness,
pestering, and so on.
• To cope with offensive behavior, virtual worlds have a
special class of players (the wizards) who have a policing role
(among others). These players are treated differently by the
other players; typically either with complete respect or with
complete disrespect.
• When more than two people are in the same location, anyone
passing through will tarry awhile on the grounds that
something interesting may be happening.
Computing, 1992. This, along with several other classic papers I mention in
this chapter, also appears in Peter Ludlow (editor), High Noon on the Electronic
Frontier: Conceptual Issues in Cyberspace. Cambridge MA, MIT Press, 1996.
http://www.ics.uci.edu/~jpd/ moo/curtis92mudding.pdf.
60 He called them MUDs, but this was at a time before people got uppity
about the term.
662 Chapter 6
• Gagging is available, but rarely used on LambdaMOO.
• Conversations in virtual worlds use emotes and smileys to
supplement pure text.
• Partly due to the time it takes to type speech, it is common
for several conversational threads to be extant
simultaneously in a location, even when there are only two
people involved.
• The disjoint nature of virtual world conversations makes it
much easier to join in on one without appearing to be rudely
interrupting.
• Large-scale gatherings of players can occur for specific
events, of which virtual weddings are a particularly
impressive example.
• Popular board games are often implemented and played in
virtual worlds.
• The overall size of a virtual community is larger than the
number of people actually playing at any one time.
LambdaMOO had 700–800 different players connecting per
week, but rarely more than 40 of them at once61
.
• Some players play so much that it’s a form of addiction.
• Players can achieve a social consensus about how they ought
to behave. This differs from virtual world to virtual world,
and from virtual world to the real world.
Most of this will seem obvious to players of virtual worlds now,
and indeed it seemed so at the time, too. However, for those
individuals who hadn’t encountered the concept before it was
dazzling stuff. Almost all the sociology work on virtual worlds
that followed took points raised by Curtis and ran with them;
this may explain why gender studies in particular attracted
more attention than might otherwise have been expected.
61 This was before people read Curtis’s paper and descended on LambdaMOO
in droves, of course.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 663
In his paper, Curtis also gives a definition of what constitutes a
MUD (that is, a virtual world), or at least what distinguishes it
from an Adventure-style game. He lists three major factors:
• MUDs are not goal-oriented; they have no concept of
winning/losing, and record no scores.
• MUDS can be extended from within by the players.
• They generally have more than one player connected
simultaneously; these players can communicate with
each other in real time.
Although only the third item of these applies universally to
virtual worlds (the first two work for LambdaMOO and other
TinyMUD derivatives, but they don’t for even the AberMUDs
and LPMUDs that were around when Curtis wrote this),
nevertheless this definition has gained considerable currency. It
is still seen occasionally in cyberculture articles by people who
want to make points about virtual worlds without actually ever
touching one.
Being a computer scientist rather than a sociologist, Curtis’s
later work concerned practical uses of virtual worlds62; in a
social sciences context, it is therefore usually only referred to
when there is a requirement to illustrate that virtual worlds
have uses beyond mere entertainment.
Mudding: Social Phenomena in Text-Based Virtual Realities gave
social science researchers a lot to think about, but it was by no
means exhaustive in its enumeration of behaviors. Although
Curtis never claimed it was, few sociologists have looked
beyond it.
62 Pavel Curtis and David A. Nichols, MUDs Grow Up: Social Virtual Reality in
the Real World. Xerox PARC, 1993.
http://www.eff.org/Net_culture/MOO_MUD_IRC/muds_grow_up.paper.
664 Chapter 6
Graduate students surveying the literature for term reports63
will discover the big issues are identity, pseudonimity, gender
difference, and pretty much nothing else. The first two of these
are related, and I discuss them in the next section; the third, I
discuss in the section after that.
Because of this reduction of the sociology of virtual
communities to a few key issues, it has been left to nonsociologists to explore new areas of social research in virtual
worlds. This particularly has been the case in community
management, where community service representatives have
found themselves having to invent the theory that matches
their practice as they go along. Amy Jo Kim, for example, who
presented an influential paper64 at the 1997 Computer Game
Developers’ Conference on how to design sociability into online
games, has a background in behavioral neuroscience.
The most outstanding piece of original research of direct
interest to both sociologists and the designers of virtual worlds
is Christian Carazo-Chandler’s study65 of population mobility in
a virtual world (Ultima Online, to be precise, with a nod to
EverQuest). Carazo-Chandler found that movement within a
shard and between shards did occur, following theories of
migration that apply in the real world; they could therefore be
63 A good representative example that focuses on virtual worlds in particular
is Vickie Edwards, The New Societies: Issues within MUDs and Other Virtual
Communities. Department of Sociology and Anthropology, University of
South Alabama, 2000. http://www.nacave.com/vickie/cyberculture/
newsocieties.html.
64 Amy Jo Kim, Ritual Reality: Social Design for Online Gaming Environments.
Santa Clara, Proceedings of Computer Game Developers’ Conference, 1997.
65 Christian Carazo-Chandler, Online Migration and Population Mobility in a
Virtual Gaming Setting—Ultima Online.
http://cybergeography.hypermart.net/Copy of Online Migration in a virtual
gaming setting Ultima Online.zip.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 665
reasonably well predicted. Players had many reasons for and
against leaving one shard, and for and against joining a new one
(following a push/pull model). They would want to leave (push)
because of:
• Housing shortages
• Lack of local services (such as vendors selling the wares you
need)
• Change of character preference
• Harassment
• Their poor reputation
They would be thwarted in their desire to move (barriers) by:
• Housing shortages where they wanted to go
• Distance from starting point (where no instant transport is
available)
• Lack of funds
• Too high or low concentrations of other players in target
location
They would want to be somewhere else (pull) because of:
• Greater opportunity for adventure
• Different or more local services
• Higher levels of conflict
• Greater or less popularity of the area
• More social activities
• Proximity of friends
• Profit maximization
Virtual world designers who are of the opinion that players
should be given everything they want might use these results as
evidence to support their conjecture; players will move to some
other virtual world if they find their needs are not being met.
666 Chapter 6
This is true, but the barriers for cross-world movement are
stronger than for in-world or cross-shard movement; it also
assumes that giving players what they want is something they
want.
Carazo-Chandler applies other models of population migration
apart from push/pull. One of these, concerning circulatory
movement, shows how individuals move location within a
virtual world as their characters’ experience and abilities grow.
This is again of use to the thoughtful virtual world designer,
because it allows the connection of physical66 movement with
the personal movement of the hero’s journey (not that the
players would necessarily notice).
Carazo-Chandler is a geographer, not a sociologist, and was
investigating population migration from the perspective of how
players’ decisions to migrate are affected by the structure of
their virtual environment. It would be nice if his work sparked
sufficient interest among sociologists for them to investigate
virtual world populations as populations, rather than as
cultures or jumping-on points for ideological bandwagons, but I
don’t expect it’ll happen.
Talking of geographers and sociology, it was Rob Kitchin who
wrote the first comprehensive introduction to the social science
of cyberspace67. Chapter 4 of his book summarizes the views of
sociologists and other cultural scientists concerning cyberspace
in general, and virtual worlds in particular. He describes two
main points of view:
• Cyberspace engenders disembodiment, allowing the
construction of new self-identity.
66 “Physical” in the context of the virtual world’s physics, not the real world’s.
67 Rob Kitchin, Cyberspace. Chichester England, John Wiley & Sons, 1998.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 667
• Cyberspace is where nature and technology merge,
allowing the reconstruction of the body.
There’s no reason why anyone can’t experience some degree of
each of these, of course; completely shedding the one (body or
identity) completely frees the other, but there can be movement
in both directions. That this occurs at the level of the individual
indirectly highlights why perhaps sociologists haven’t taken to
virtual worlds as much as they might have been expected to do.
Except in the case of the large, graphical virtual worlds that
weren’t around when Pavel Curtis wrote his beacon paper,
maybe virtual world societies simply aren’t big enough to
permit sociologists to make general statements about them?
Individuals are just too important. There is scope for looking at
large-scale virtual worlds with player bases numbered in the
hundreds of thousands; there is scope for looking at virtual
worlds as a part of wider society—that is, from without instead
of from within. At the moment, though, when it comes to
looking at virtual worlds from a sociological perspective,
researchers very soon find themselves discussing psychology
rather than sociology.
Psychology
Anyone with the remotest interest in the psychology of players
of virtual worlds must—that’s must—look at John Suler’s
hypertext book68
, The Psychology of Cyberspace. Much of it is
100% relevant to virtual worlds (he talks about them directly),
and some sections are classics in their own right. Others are
merely short monographs, but almost no subfield of Internetrelated psychology goes untouched. Suler has something to say
about everything I mention in the remainder of this review, and
68 John Suler, The Psychology of Cyberspace. 1996 (orig.)
http://www.rider.edu/users/suler/psycyber/psycyber.html.
668 Chapter 6
more besides. There are other, more cohesive and directed
introductions to the subject69, but none that I have encountered
are as comprehensive as Suler’s.
Psychologists have found many things to interest them in
virtual worlds, but two topics dominate: identity construction
and addiction. I’ll take these in the order in which they were
first written; perhaps surprisingly for many people, this means
I’ll be starting with addiction.
In 1989, the year Jim Aspnes wrote TinyMUD, Margaret Shotton
of Nottingham University in England published a book70 about
computer addiction. It reported a formal study she had
undertaken in the mid-1980s, comprising data from a number of
questionnaires and psychometric tests, coupled with interviews.
Shotton explicitly included players of MUD1 in her survey, and
referred to that world during the discussion of the results;
indeed, one of the people with whom she conducted extensive
interviews was a MUD1 player.
Shotton confirmed some people were indeed computerdependent, and they could be divided into three types:
• Networkers used the computer as a means for
communication.
• Workers used the computer for programming and other
work activities.
• Explorers used the computer to program in an
investigative manner for self-education.
69 I quite like: Patricia Wallace, The Psychology of the Internet. Cambridge.
Cambridge University Press, 1999. That isn’t just because she discusses my
player types model, either.
70 Margaret Shotton, Computer Addiction? A Study of Computer Dependency.
London, Taylor & Francis, 1989.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 669
Networkers was the category into which the majority of MUD1
players fitted. Shotton discovered that they were less likely to
suffer (from their dependency) in their real-life relationships
than workers or explorers; that said, neither of these other
categories were particularly bad either. There was no evidence
to suggest that people who spent a lot of free time on their
computers pained their family any more (or any less) than
people who spent a lot of time playing golf or star-gazing
through telescopes. Computer addiction is like an addiction to
stamp collecting or photography, rather than like drug or
gambling addiction.
Shotton actually goes further than this. Not only did she
demonstrate that the intense use of computers doesn’t turn
outgoing extroverts into pale, reclusive hermits, but she also
suggested that for some people the experience was very
positive. Given that the print media at the time were publishing
scare stories about “computer junkies”71, this was great news for
the developers of computer games72
.
Most of what Shotton wrote about computer dependency
continues to apply, even though computers and the Internet
have now become mainstream. This has not, however,
prevented people from talking about “Internet addiction” as if it
were a worse social evil than gun warfare. It is only to be
expected that when an individual indulges for long periods in an
activity that their close friends and family don’t understand, it
will be cause for concern; that doesn’t mean that the people who
are concerned are necessarily right, though. Concern is best
addressed (one way or the other) through information: Either an
71 It was in response to media interest that Shotton published her work,
which was originally her doctoral thesis.
72 Computer games for adults, that is. Shotton treated children differently,
recognizing that computer dependency among youngsters is often the result
of family or social problems, rather than personality type.
670 Chapter 6
activity is basically harmless, or it’s dangerous enough to
warrant intervention.
Sadly, some psychologists and psychiatrists side with the
friends and relatives without even listening to the other side of
the argument. Kimberley Young, founder of the Center for OnLine Addiction73, conducted a three-year study74 of Internet
addiction and pronounced it generally a bad thing. People sit
around in chat rooms when they should be saying goodnight to
their children! Well yes, that is a bad thing, but then people sit
around in bars or watch TV when they should be saying
goodnight to their children; the Internet provides the
opportunity to become obsessive about more things, but it
doesn’t actually make people obsessive—they’re like that
already.
Although I don’t doubt there are some things on the Internet
that can cause real social problems (pornography, for example),
lumping together everything Internet-based as if it were the
same thing is, in my opinion, a mistake. I’m particularly
unimpressed by Young’s profile of an “on-lineaholic” called
Steve who is addicted to LambdaMOO (she follows this up with
helpful advice for a recovery strategy he could use).
LambdaMOO? Excuse me? LambdaMOO is a place—how can
you be addicted to a place? You can be addicted to what you do
in a place, which in Steve’s case seems to concern increasing his
low self-esteem, but you can’t be addicted to the place itself75
.
73 http://www.netaddiction.com/
74 Kimberley S. Young, Caught in the Net: How to Recognize the Signs of Internet
Addiction—and a Winning Strategy for Recovery. New York, John Wiley &
Sons, 1998.
75 Marketing virtual worlds as “utterly addictive” doesn’t help get this
message across, of course….
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 671
Besides, who is to say that the addiction isn’t a positive thing?
Virtual worlds are places where social interaction occurs, which
is more than can be said for many of the alternatives (for
example, watching TV). People can be addicted to things for
good reasons, not just bad ones; personal development is, I
believe, one of the former. In this kind of situation, the
dependency will disappear on its own after the individual has
achieved their goal (assuming they’re allowed to); any
“addiction” here is psychological, not physical.
David Greenfield takes a more open view of Internet addiction76
,
recognizing that in many cases all that people need to do is cut
back, rather than give up; in this sense, the “addiction” is really
“intense interest.” His attitude is that the Internet can offer
unique and stimulating experiences, and only becomes a
problem when it truly interferes with daily life77. This is good
sense: Just because you have a virtual life, you can’t ignore the
maintenance of your real life that is required to support it.
Dinty Moore summarizes78 the different points of view about
why people can’t leave virtual worlds alone as follows:
• The players are addicted. Computer games are addictive,
and gamelike virtual worlds are even more so because they
blur into reality and players don’t realize they’re playing a
game79
.
76 David N. Greenfield, Virtual Addiction: Help for Netheads, Cyberfreaks, and
Those Who Love Them. Oakland CA, New Harbinger Publications, 1999.
77 He says this explicitly with respect to children playing MUDs (although he
calls them MUDDs).
78 Dinty W. Moore, The Emperor’s Virtual Clothes: The Naked Truth about
Internet Culture. Chapel Hill NC, Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, 1995.
79 Which, of course, they aren’t.
672 Chapter 6
• The players are learning valuable lessons. They get to meet
interesting people, and can socialize better than in the real
world. Some learn to code, too.
• The players are college students who will do just about
anything to avoid doing academic work.
The third of these has probably more truth in it than the other
two put together…. So, what does all this mean for the designers
of virtual worlds? Well, it means that although virtual worlds
may be highly conducive to activities that cause addiction,
playing them is not itself inherently addictive. It means that
when people do become addicted, whether it’s a good or a bad
thing depends on what exactly they’re addicted to. It means that
people who satisfy every field test for addiction may actually be
pursuing an important personal goal with great determination.
It means that you could be doing people a favor if you allow
them to complete their goal.
Oh, and it also means you shouldn’t go out of your way to make
the activities in your virtual world addictive; that way lies
lawsuits. Popular is one thing, but real addiction is something
else.
The possibility of deliberately addicting players to activities in
virtual worlds has been investigated in a series of articles80 by
80 John Hopson, Basic Principles of Reinforcement for Muds. MUD-DEV, 2000.
http://www.kanga.nu/archives/MUD-Dev-L/2000Q3/msg00364.php.
John Hopson, Matching and Maximizing: How Players Choose Between
Activities. MUD-DEV, 2000.
http://www.kanga.nu/archives/MUD-Dev-L/2000Q3/msg00725.php.
John Hopson, Conditioned Reinforcers: Getting Players to Do Things for Free.
MUD-DEV, 2000.
http://www.kanga.nu/archives/MUD-Dev-L/2000Q3/msg01101.php. See also:
John Hopson, Behavioral Game Design. Gamasutra, 2001.
http://www.gamasutra.com/features/20010427/hopson_01.htm.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 673
experimental psychologist John Hopson. His work confirms
that goal-oriented virtual worlds already have powerful
addictive features of conditioned reinforcement, which explains
why some players will run on a leveling treadmill81 for months
on end and still want more. A morally unscrupulous or
unthinkingly irresponsible virtual world designer could tune
what has evolved anyway to intensify the experience even more;
if they did, however, they’d be advised to seek premium legal
counsel about what to put on their product’s box about it.
Incidentally, Hopson’s work shows it’s possible to look at the
reasons people play virtual worlds purely in terms of this
casino-style addiction; in such situations, there’s no
requirement that players are undergoing the kind of potentially
life-changing personal journey I have described in this book.
Which segues neatly to the topic of identity construction….
Addiction and identity issues are actually related; for many
people, the chance to escape from the physical body is greatly
attractive, and therefore the search for identity could be the
addictive quality that keeps many people playing in virtual
worlds. This was a point suggested by the first paper82 to
recognize the importance of identity experiment in virtual
worlds, written in 1992 by Amy Bruckman.
Bruckman began her research as an investigation into what the
cyberspace envisaged by Cyberpunk writers might be like when
it arrived; when she discovered virtual worlds, she realized that
81 This is a technical term, believe it or not, used to describe the process of
going up levels in a boring, never-ending but strangely irresistible way, as
experienced by hundreds of thousands of virtual world players daily.
82 Amy Bruckman, Identity Workshop: Emergent Social and Psychological
Phenomena in Text-Based Virtual Reality. MIT Media Laboratory, 1992.
ftp://ftp.cc.gatech.edu/pub/people/asb/papers/ identity-workshop.rtf.
674 Chapter 6
it already had arrived, and switched the focus of her inquiry.
Over the course of a month, she studied a number of virtual
worlds, but concluded that she’d have to concentrate on a single
one if she was ever to understand the phenomenon fully. She
selected TrekMUSE.
Following Pavel Curtis, she noted that male-as-female crossgender play occurred fairly frequently, commonly as a
psychological exploration, but occasionally as a practical joke; as
usual with practical jokes, they’re only amusing for the
perpetrator, not the victim83. She did some investigation into
female-as-male play, too, but discovered evidence only of the
“psychological exploration” style of cross-gender play84. She also
found that although men treated female-presenting characters
with excessive courtesy, they often did the same to malepresenting newbies, too.
In examining addiction, Bruckman came to the conclusion that
although playing virtual worlds was habit-forming, most
players were able to stop if they wanted to and few long-term
players were truly “stuck” in them. This makes any decision as
to the goodness or badness of spending lots of time in virtual
worlds essentially a value judgment (that is, the point unhappily
missed by many of the “Internet addiction” brigade).
Although Bruckman linked addiction and identity issues, they
were soon to become separated. This is perhaps due in part to
the tremendous influence of Donna Haraway’s A Cyborg
83 They often reveal deep insecurities in the perpetrator, so it’s interesting to
consider why someone would think getting other people of the same sex to
fall in love with them was funny.
84 This may be because the number of real-life women playing in virtual
worlds was so low that she simply didn’t encounter anyone who
masqueraded as male for kicks, or it could be something more
psychologically fundamental.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 675
Manifesto85. This is a utopian thought-experiment that
envisages human beings as cyborgs in order to make a number
of stinging points about the direction that feminism should go.
It starts by stating three areas in which age-old boundaries have
become blurred:
• Human and animal
• Organism and machine
• Physical and non-physical
Haraway argues that the lowering of these boundaries admits
the possibility of the future existence of cyborg life-forms, then
tokenizes such an entity so as to explore the consequences of its
existence on feminist thinking.
It’s due to the second and (because it’s related) third of
Haraway’s blurred boundaries that researchers became
interested in virtual worlds. Traditionally, psychologists have
separated mind, fantasy, and information from body, reality,
and materiality, but virtual worlds don’t fit into this scheme at
all well. By examining virtual worlds, perhaps some new ways of
looking at issues of identity could be raised?
Lynn Cherny, taking Haraway’s point that cyberspace makes
the position of “the body” problematical, looked at86 different
ways by which the player is split between being a physical
entity at a keyboard and a virtual entity encoded in a computer.
85 Donna Haraway, A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and SocialistFeminism in the Late Twentieth Century. Written in 1985, this appeared in
numerous forms, finally crystallizing in Donna Haraway, Simians, Cyborgs,
and Women. New York, Routledge, 1991. It’s this version that is extracted in
The Cybercultures Reader.
86 Lynn Cherny, “Objectifying” the Body in the Discourse of an Object-Oriented
MUD. Stanford University, 1995.
http://fragment.nl/mirror/Cherny/Objectifying_the_body.txt.
676 Chapter 6
As Cherny is a sociolinguist, much of her paper concerns
describing some idiosyncratic (from the point of view of other
virtual worlds) communication constructs used by players of
her pseudonymous ElseMOO. She noted that although most of
these activities were for fun, sometimes they were used in ways
that are most definitely not fun: She was distressingly spoofed87
at one point during her investigation, and recommended that
for ethical reasons players should not be able to manipulate
other players as if they were puppets.
As I myself have argued in this book, I concur that there is a
split between the physical and the virtual self. Furthermore, I
believe that it is a purpose—no, a duty—of virtual worlds to
facilitate the reconciliation of these selves, for the benefit of the
real-life88 individual.
As for the manipulation of other characters, well that’s an
expectation issue. If you know it’s going to happen, and the
degree to which it’s going to happen, there’s not a problem. If
there were, then stage hypnotists couldn’t manipulate willing
subjects for a living. What Cherny objected to when she was
spoofed was basically that she did not have an expectation that
this would happen; even if she knew it was possible, it was still a
betrayal of trust. When people go into virtual worlds that look
and behave in ways consistent with a particular kind of
environment (real or imaginary) such that they can expect to
have a reasonable understanding of what it will be like, then if
something happens within that understood context it’s
(morally, if not emotionally) fine. For example, a player in a
fantasy world who goes up to a snake-eyed necromancer NPC
87 Spoofing occurs only in textual virtual worlds, and involves creating a freeform message that gives the impression something has “happened” which
hasn’t.
88 Real-life, because reality always wins. Wherever you may think you are,
your mind’s hardware is always in reality, and you can only leave by dying.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 677
famed for his mesmeric powers can hardly complain if their
character is made to run amok while clucking like a chicken;
they may not like it, but they can’t say it was unfair. If, however,
the same thing happened in the same virtual world while the
player’s character was buying provisions at a mundane
downtown store, there’d better be a very good explanation (or
an easy defense against the assault), otherwise it would be
unfair.
Unfairness occurs when it’s your understanding that nothing
awful is, in the current circumstances, permitted to happen by
the virtual world’s rules (physics or terms of service), then it
happens anyway. This is whether the consequences of the
unfairness are (in virtual world terms) tangible or intangible.
Most problems with unfairness come when groups of people
(especially newbies) have a false view of cultural norms and do
one of the following:
• React to what they perceive as unfairness, but most people
think is fine.
• Perpetrate something most people think is an unfairness
that they don’t perceive as such.
Allowing players to spoof other players’ actions is an absolutely
classic and obvious way to cause this kind of trouble. In MUD1, I
didn’t even consider giving spoofing capabilities to anyone but
the virtual world’s administrators; it beggars belief that regular
players were ever allowed to use it in MOOs except perhaps in
the most rigorous of role-playing situations89
.
89 That said, most pre-client textual worlds didn’t do a great job of stopping
other spoofs anyway, especially from line-wrapping (separate two messages
with enough spaces that the second one wraps to a new line so it looks like
it’s independent output from the virtual world itself).
678 Chapter 6
Charles Stivale analyzed90 the different opportunities virtual
worlds present for players to harass one another to various
degrees; he found identity assault to be the strongest form of
harassment. The most interesting part of his paper is his
discussion of how players of LambdaMOO reacted following an
incident of “virtual rape” (the specifics of which I discuss in the
next section91). They spent a great deal of time debating ways
and means to define what forms of action could be construed as
serious harassment, and although the discussion eventually
floundered on arguments about what constitutes free speech in
a world where everything is typed (and therefore covered by the
First Amendment), it’s interesting to note that one obvious
solution—remove the ability to spoof—was never on the
agenda. In adventure-oriented virtual worlds, these commands
are usually far too immersion-busting even to contemplate for
everyday use, yet in early 1990s LambdaMOO they were
apparently regarded as indispensable despite their obvious
potential for misuse.
The major work on identity discovery in virtual worlds is Sherry
Turkle’s superb Life on the Screen92. This is a wonderful book by
a very influential author. In it, she makes a number of central
points in a clear, easy-to-follow style93, charting her own
personal experiences, but including such a rich seam of
anecdotal excerpts from interviews with subjects that other
researchers will be quoting her for years. What I particularly
90 Charles J. Stivale, Spam: Heteroglossia and Harassment in Cyberspace. David
Porter (editor), Internet Culture. New York, Routledge, 1997.
91 Interestingly, the coda of Amy Bruckman’s Identity Workshop paper
includes a transcript that refers to these events, which were ongoing at the
time.
92 Sherry Turkle, Life on the Screen. New York, Simon & Schuster, 1995.
93 Contrast this with Donna Haraway’s prose, which in places resembles that
of a program I wrote in 1978 to generate random social science essays: full of
so many meaning-loaded, context-heavy words as to be almost impenetrable.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 679
like about this book is that I agree with pretty well all her
conclusions, despite having come from inside virtual worlds,
whereas she comes from outside.
As I already mentioned in my Chapter 3, her Chapter 7 is the big
one insofar as virtual world theorists are concerned; it’s there
she gets to the heart of the identity issue. Is identity unitary or
multiple? Is it a structure of mind or an illusion? She observes
that on the Internet people “build a self by cycling through
many selves,” which previously in real life this was very hard to
accomplish. Virtual worlds, because they provide realitypresenting environments, are where this happens most
intensely94; she characterizes them as “laboratories for the
construction of identity,” and looks at them in considerable
detail.
Turkle poses a series of important questions, most of which are
yet to be answered (although I make an attempt to address
some of them in this book). Those of most interest to virtual
world designers are:
• What kind of virtual selves do people make?
• Do real-world selves learn lessons from virtual selves?
• How do the different selves communicate with each other?
• Why do people do this?
Using a number of case studies to support her theory, Turkle
argues that virtual worlds allow individuals to express
unexplored facets of themselves, or facets that they are unable
94 This has been noted by several observers, and has support from a
sociolinguistic study that compared the communicative structure of
LambdaMOO, Internet Relay Chat, and VaxNotes (a BBS system). See: Jill
Serpentelli, Conversational Structure and Personality Correlates of
Electronic Communication. Haverford College, 1992.
http://www.zacha.net/articles/serpentelli.html.
680 Chapter 6
to manifest in real life. She concludes experience in virtual
worlds can greatly encourage personal growth and selfawareness, but cautions they can also be places where people
lose their way and become trapped. The mechanism for this is
identity drift (she calls the changes slippages), where character
and player merge, where multiple selves join to form what the
individual believes is their true self.
As a clinical psychologist, Turkle is keen to identify explicit
ways by which people can work through issues in virtual worlds
in therapeutic95 fashion—for example, by role-playing their
real-life situation (or an analogy of it) in different ways.
However, she notes that some people can repeatedly replay the
same mistakes, learning nothing from them; this only serves to
harden their attitudes and they hate themselves all the more for
it, like ghosts doomed forever to echo the reality of their formerlife’s deeds. This is reenacting, not reworking; it’s much less
common than reworking, but it’s a serious problem for those
who fall into it. Virtual worlds allow people to find who they
want to be, but it’s up to the individuals themselves to become
those people. Maybe for some, the distance between existing self
and ideal self is just too great to travel.
On the other hand, it may be the design of the virtual world
itself gets in the way. As John Hopson noted, there are ways to
keep people playing in virtual worlds that have nothing to do
with personal development. This is a point also made by
Jonathan Baron, who describes96 a dialectic between game
95 For a review of the therapeutic uses of virtual worlds, see: James Sempsey
III, The Therapeutic Potentials of Text-Based Virtual Reality. Journal of MUD
Research Vol. 3(2), 1998.
http://www.brandeis.edu/pubs/jove/HTML/v3/sempsey.html.
96 Jonathan Baron, Glory and Shame: Powerful Psychology in Multiplayer Online
Games. San Jose, Proceedings Computer Game Developers Conference, 1999.
http://www.gamasutra.com/features/19991110/Baron_01.htm.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 681
worlds that emphasize development over achievement and
those that emphasize achievement over development. His
assessment is basically that the former are the goal, and that
people who aim for the latter are asking for trouble in the long
term. For hero’s journey reasons, I totally agree with him on
that point.
Although, as Sherry Turkle describes, some people do
deliberately create characters with different personalities to see
how they work, I contend that most people don’t. When they
experiment with an archetype (for example, a new character
class97), it’s usually because they’re bored with their first one,
curious about the new one, or think they’ll have some in-world
advantage as a result; they don’t make a conscious decision
about which direction their personality should go in next (or if
they do, it’s because they’re psychology majors or have
experienced psychotherapy). To be fair, Turkle doesn’t say that
everyone thinks explicitly about what identity they want either,
but it could be easy for people unfamiliar with virtual worlds to
come away from her book believing that identity drift is
something that happens to only a few players; in my experience,
it happens to pretty well all of them.
I suppose this is as good a place as any to describe my own
views on identity. Personally, I view an individual as having a
core self (or agglomeration of selves, it doesn’t really matter),
which projects itself through the filters of action and word to
present images to other individuals. The filter can be changed
according to circumstances, but in the real world it’s difficult to
do this because of the anchors of family, community, and
97 I would be very interested to discover what psychologists make of the
identification with anthropomorphic animals that define virtual worlds like
FurryMUCK (http://www.furry.com). Studies to date seem to consider only
what people do in these worlds (see the following section on gender issues)
rather than why they do it.
682 Chapter 6
society. People can find themselves projecting through filters
they don’t like, or with which they don’t feel comfortable.
Virtual worlds allow the filters to be changed experimentally
and (as a consequence) experientially. Through playing them
you can find the filter closest to clarity: The one for the person
you feel yourself truly to be.
Identity exploration is generally seen as a good thing. Sherry
Turkle noted that it can be problematical for individuals who
discover their ideal self but resist moving toward it; Mark
Slouka warns98 that there are further difficulties when an
individual wants to change but their identity issues are
irreconcilable. He describes a male friend who, while
masquerading as female, fell in love with another female
character; she reciprocated his feelings without knowing he was
male in real life99. In this example, the virtual person and the
real person can be reconciled intellectually and emotionally, but
never physically; the female character’s personality can
influence the male player’s (and vice versa), but they can never
become one in the physical world. They can in the virtual one,
therefore the male player is committed to spending as much
time as possible there, but this is a relationship that can never
be consummated. The fate of Slouka’s friend reminds me of that
of Rilian, Prince of Narnia, enchanted so that he was only ever
himself for one hour every night while bound in a silver chair100
.
Slouka is right, too: There can be problems when the virtual
world acts as a bridge between different parts of the real world.
In general, players treat virtual worlds as if they were separate
from the real world; this is an incredibly useful approximation
98 Mark Slouka, War of the Worlds: The Assault on Reality. New York, Basic
Books, 1995.
99 Of course, she could have been male in real life, too. These things are rarely
simple….
100 C. S. Lewis, The Silver Chair. London, Geoffrey Bles, 1953.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 683
to the truth, but (as I keep pointing out) virtual worlds exist
courtesy of reality. Newton’s laws of motion work for everyday
situations, but they break down when objects are traveling at
close to the speed of light101; similarly, rules of virtual behavior
work for everyday situations, but they break down when they
travel close to reality102
.
Every occurrence in a virtual world has a real-world effect: If
nothing else, it is presented to the minds of those who observe
its occurrence or who observe its effects. In most cases, this
effect can be regarded as negligible compared even with the
mere noise of existence surrounding the player. However, over
time the accretion of these mental effects can be life-changing.
People will develop as people, of course, but even in so doing
there can be very unpleasant real-life physical effects. It’s quite
conceivable, for example, that for the wrong person at the
wrong time the permanent death of a character could cause the
permanent death of the player103. Less drastically, falling in love
can and does occur regularly in virtual worlds.
Virtual worlds may offer respite from reality, but reality is
always, always in charge. You always have to come back. Of
course, this could be used as a reason for not leaving it in the
first place. Fortunately, my reality at the moment is in
describing the psychological research I have discovered that
addresses issues of identity exploration, so I’ll spare you my
further speculations and return to that.
As with any science where the collection of data is expensive
and time-consuming, psychologists have a tendency to talk
101 Relative to the observer.
102 Also relative to the observer.
103 Note to compensation lawyers: The same applies to sports matches, TV
news, share price readouts, and surprise birthday parties, so don’t get your
hopes up.
684 Chapter 6
about other people’s experiments rather than conduct their
own. This means that eloquent or forceful essayists can pile
interpretation on interpretation until they reach a collective
explanation of an idealized state that may not equate with the
truth. In looking at identity issues, MOOs, and other TinyMUD
derivatives are the standard; much of what psychologists know
about virtual worlds comes from MOOs (LambdaMOO in
particular), even though they are hardly representative of
virtual worlds in general.
Rather than relying on second-hand observations and idealistic
interpretations, Elaine Raybourn conducted her own study104 of
MOOs in 1998. She found that several of the tropes that had
become current were actually quite wrong.
Raybourn started from the standpoint that players construct
identities in virtual worlds. Her aim was to discover how they
did it. Through interviews and participant observation, she
discovered three themes that reflected the processes at work:
• Developing the programming skills that lead to privilege
and status and to being a contributor to the community.
• Using creative communication skills to become more
popular.
• Treating newbies to displays of active engagement,
indifference, or abuse, so as to present an image of
powerfulness.
These are not the kind of touchy-feely counterculture ideals
normally described as being embedded in MOOs.
104 Elaine M. Raybourn: The Quest for Power, Popularity, and Privilege in
Cyberspace: Identity Construction in a Text-Based Multi-User Virtual Reality.
Denver, Proceedings Western Speech Communication Association Conference,
1998. http://www.cs.unm.edu/~raybourn/moo5d~1.htm.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 685
There are two main assumption failures:
• Although social virtual worlds do not have an explicit gainpoints-for-doing-things hierarchy in place, that doesn’t
mean there is no goal-oriented behavior. It’s not tangible
(that is, programmed in), sure, but it exists. Players have,
through their interactions, created a goal-oriented peckingorder system themselves.
• Community building is no more democratic than in real life.
The earlier consensus among researchers was that more
egalitarian communities formed in virtual reality because,
freed from their bodies, people could project aspects of
themselves which were received more positively, thereby
creating stronger and more meaningful relationships.
Raybourn discovered that community formation is actually
heavily influenced by people’s efforts to gain respect,
privileges, and popularity.
However much that players of adventure virtual worlds may
welcome any research demonstrating that players of social
virtual worlds are not their ideological superiors, the argument
about goal-oriented behavior doesn’t actually say much. The
“games” that people play in MOOs are the same ones “played” in
any other social environment that has a power elite, such as an
office, school, or factory (or, indeed, a too-easy adventure world
that ceases character development before personal development
has taken place; Michael Lawrie’s discussion105 of how he made
MIST work as a game is very enlightening in this regard). It’s
politics, and game-type virtual worlds have politics, too.
105 Michael Lawrie, Confessions of an Arch-Wizard. 1991. http://lorry.org/archwizard/confessions.html. Michael Lawrie, A Footnote to Confessions. 2003.
http://lorry.org/arch-wizard/footnote. html.
686 Chapter 6
So people in a MOO may use political success to validate their
identity constructions, but it’s the identity constructions that
are at the heart of it because they’re the only material (realworld) change that can emerge from playing them (educational
MOOs are an honorable exception).
One of the points that Raybourn makes most forcefully is that in
virtual worlds “communication is identity”—with
disembodiment, it’s all there is by which to judge anyone. This
may be basically true in MOOs, but in adventure-style virtual
worlds there are other ways to get a message across, too. All
actions have a communication component: If I go off and fetch
you something you need, I’m communicating an aspect of my
personality even if I don’t say a word. Similarly, all
communications have an action component: If I want to get
through a locked door, then threatening you to give me the key
could be considered an action undertaken by me to cause the
door to open106. Actions speak louder than words, the pen is
mightier than the sword; they’re different ends of a continuum.
Raybourn is right, communication is identity, but
communication isn’t only speech.
Raybourn’s paper has its flaws, but it goes some way to
debunking the more idealistic views of virtual worlds that were
becoming orthodoxy. Perhaps had she invested more than the
50 hours she did as a participant observer, she could have
provided some insight into the way her three themes relate to
one another among a community of players.
106 This is a central tenet of speech act theory, although I’ve taken it further
here than is usual.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 687
As for disembodiment, I offer the following summary: Actions
can be physical or communicative, their effects real or virtual, to
various degrees107. The same applies to people.
Although MOOs have a special place in the hearts of social
science researchers, some do look at other codebases. Mizuko
Ito’s object of study108 was the (now defunct) LPMUD Farside.
While, in general, toeing the Haraway disembodiment line and
therefore saying pretty much the same as everyone else about
virtual worlds’ capacity to blur the boundaries of mind and
machine (reporting that it happens, rather than how or why it
happens or what the consequences are for individuals), Ito also
touches on something most other researchers missed by virtue
of concentrating on MOOs and MUSEs: PKing (player-killing).
Here, she does look at consequences and (because of the
contested nature of these) accountability. She identifies several
different reasons that players PK:
• Vigilantism, defending the innocent from PKs109
.
• In response to extreme provocation.
• They consider it to be part of the game.
• They are thrill-seekers, who enjoy the hunt.
• They are sociopaths.
Ito operates under the not unreasonable implicit assumption
that everyone in a virtual world knows what the consensus
attitude to PKing is (which, in general, is that the first two
reasons are acceptable, as is the third between consenting
adults). She notes that there is a qualitative difference between
killing PCs and killing NPCs and mobiles, in that people are real.
107 You can plot them on a graph if you’re really keen.
108 Mizuko Ito, Virtually Embodied: The Reality of Fantasy in a Multi-User
Dungeon. David Porter (editor),
Internet Culture. New York, Routledge, 1997.
109 The killing of PKers is known as PKKing.
688 Chapter 6
It’s interesting to consider whether this will change as NPCs get
increasingly better artificial intelligence; Haraway’s analogy
cuts both ways.
The best article110 I have found about the reasons people PK was
written by Lexley Vaughan, a MUD2 player rather than a
psychologist (and a case study in identity exploration herself). In
addition to Ito’s list, she adds
• Wannabes. People who think PKs are cool, and hang
around in gangs talking up themselves into occasional
acts of violence.
• Achievers. The classic player type, testing the viability of
PKing as a means of scoring points.
• Explorers. Another classic player type, exploring this
aspect of the virtual world just like they would any other.
• Broken achievers. Achievers who have been attacked once
too often and snapped. They PK as a form of protest.
• Broken explorers. Like broken achievers, but deadlier.
They don’t even care if they lose.
• Provers. These form the main body of PKs, characterized
by their identity issues. They are people with low selfesteem, who choose to beat up other players (usually
ones completely unable to defend themselves) to prove
their self-worth. Unfortunately, more often than not this
only reinforces their (and everyone else’s) belief that
they’re losers.
• Big whackers. Alpha males strutting their stuff.
Lexley also identifies different types of PK run by
administration-level players; she doesn’t, however, address the
110 Lexley Vaughan, Player Killers Exposed. Imaginary Realities Vol. 2 (10),
October 1999. http://
imaginaryrealities.imaginary.com:8080/volume2/issue10/pks_print.html.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 689
issues of marauding bandit gangs that plague large-scale virtual
worlds where PKing is allowed.
Another player who has eloquently expressed how the identity
issues of some people can spoil the fun of others is Arios
Truthseeker. His 2000 Essay on D00dism111 describes the
phenomenon of the d00d, a class of individuals prevalent in
game-oriented virtual worlds (especially graphical ones)
characterized by their stylistic spelling, their uniformity of selfperceived coolness112, and their complete disregard for the
sensibilities of everyone else. They exploit virtual worlds as
places to gain the acceptance and gratification that they lack in
the real world, little realizing that their almost total
objectification of other players means they are achieving
nothing of the sort except perhaps among fellow d00ds.
Truthseeker113 offers a number of strategies for dealing with
d00ds as a player and, more importantly from the point of view
of this book, as a designer.
The only major solution Truthseeker doesn’t appear to consider
is that of letting d00ds complete their hero’s journey. Over the
years, I’ve encountered several players who, had they been
around today, would have qualified as d00ds. Some of them
turned into the best wizards (even arch-wizards) I ever had. The
d00d of today could be the responsible leader of tomorrow, if
111 Arios Truthseeker, An Essay on D00dism and the MMORPG.
http://www.kanga.nu/archives/ MUD-Dev-L/2000Q4/msg00166.php.
112 Or kewlness, in d00d-speak.
113 One of the consequences of writing as a character rather than as a player
is that you make people who quote you in formal texts like this one look
slightly ridiculous. It’s worse when you write on a web site that subsequently
disappears such that no-one can get in touch with you ever again. At least I
could ask Hedron (quoted in Chapter 3) if he preferred whether I used his real
name or his character name (he chose the latter). Unfortunately, Arios
Truthseeker disappeared off the web before I could afford him this courtesy.
690 Chapter 6
someone hasn’t tracked them down in real life and used physical
threats to stop their playing ever again.
This almost brings me to the end of my discussion of the
psychology of identity with regards to virtual worlds. There’s a
lot more out there on the subject, especially in the cyberculture
literature, some of which I’ll be coming to shortly from a
different angle.
Firstly, as an aside, I confess that I was both surprised and
elated when I discovered that psychologists had so quickly
latched onto the fact that virtual worlds are catalysts for
identity exploration. My only disappointment was that they
didn’t realize that this was in part because virtual worlds had
been designed as such. The best functional designs are supposed
to be those that work while remaining invisible to the user, so I
guess virtual world designers should take this as a compliment.
On the other hand, it reinforces the common prejudice that
we’re unrounded, geeky, emotionally adolescent individuals who
couldn’t tell a Renaissance from a Reformation if one came up
and bit us. Oh well, such is our lot.
Now the remaining points about identity construction.
For some people, an important component of their identity is
their race. This is particularly true of individuals who find
themselves in an environment where their own race is not
dominant. Although for some people race is a physical notation
of (their or others’) difference, this is not always the case: Other
people may regard it as a cultural marker (genetic difference
correlating with, rather than defining, cultural difference);
others ignore race entirely. This latter approach (“color
blindness”) is the liberal point of view, but it diminishes people
for whom their race is a part of who they are.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 691
This is a point made by Lisa Nakamura, who examined114 issues
of race in the context of (you guessed it) LambdaMOO.
Nakamura asserts that by not giving players the option of
defining their characters’ race, LambdaMOO is in fact defining it
for them: All players are assumed to be white115. Unfortunately
for her, even if they were able to define their characters’ race,
there’s still a strong chance that all players would be assumed to
be white, in the same way that female characters in a maleheavy virtual world are assumed by default to be real-life male.
LambdaMOO characters are not LambdaMOO players.
Nakamura discovered that race does make an appearance in
LambdaMOO, however, through the recreational appropriation
of stereotypes. She encountered many Asian-presenting
characters in the form of replications of TV, movie, and book
characters. She portrays the (presumed white) players behind
these characters as identity tourists, staying awhile in another
race before moving on somewhere else; naturally, as with all
stereotyping, they were only ever going to reinforce their
stereotypes this way, rather than actually learning something
about the race they were pretending to be.
Nakamura characterizes this racial tourism as “passing,” but I
don’t believe it is. The stereotypes chosen are almost universally
obvious as being stereotypes: No one is going to believe that
someone claiming to be a samurai warrior really is a samurai
warrior, therefore the whole point of passing—getting away
with pretending to be something you’re not—is undone. Were a
non-Asian to pretend to be a Japanese student of English, that
114 Lisa Nakamura, Race In/For Cyberspace: Identity Tourism and Racial Passing
on the Internet. 1996. David Bell and Barbara M. Kennedy (editors), The
Cybercultures Reader. New York, Routledge, 2000.
http://www.humanities.uci.edu/mposter/syllabi/readings/nakamura.html.
115 Nakamura doesn’t say whether she, as a player of LambdaMOO, found
herself making the same assumptions.
692 Chapter 6
would be passing; pretending to be Sulu from Star Trek is no
more passing than pretending to be Spock.
Many virtual worlds do have “races,” of course, it’s just that
these just don’t correspond to real ones: You can be an elf, a
dwarf, a halfling, and so on. In virtual worlds for virtual
characters, these are as meaningful as any other race—more so
in tangible terms, because whereas with real-world races it
would be improper to give members of one race superior
characteristics to those of another, for imaginary races it is
acceptable (although see Chapter 8, “Coda: Ethical
Considerations,” for a discussion of why perhaps it shouldn’t
be).
These “races” are actually more like subspecies than races, of
course, which blurs the issue even further. If I can be an elf, can I
be a Jewish elf116 or a Chinese elf? Can I be an Inuit leprechaun,
or are all leprechauns Irish?
To experiment with issues of race in virtual worlds, Beth Kolko
has established a virtual world (MOOScape) specifically for this
purpose117. Sensing that an important element of real-world
identity is missing from virtual identity, her aim is to ask how
the global marking of a character’s race affects the social
environment of virtual worlds. It’s a reasonable thing to do;
after all, if LambdaMOO lets you define your character’s age,
why shouldn’t you define its race118?
116 In some games, I could be. See
http://my.homeip.net/hack/torg/rachel_kairo.html for a beautiful example.
117 Beth E. Kolko, Erasing @race: Going White in the (Inter)Face. Beth E. Kolko,
Lisa Nakamura, and Gilbert B. Rodman (editors), Race in Cyberspace. New
York, Routledge, 2000.
118 I’d rather ask the reverse question: If LambdaMOO doesn’t let you define
your character’s race, why should you define its age?
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 693
In setting up MOOScape, Kolko had to decide how to put in the
racial specifier. She had basically three choices:
• Very intrusively, like gender. Reflect it in every third-person
message concerning the player.
• Moderately intrusively, like mood. Reflect it in every
reference to the player’s actions—for example, their
movement.
• Moderately unintrusively. Reflect it only in the descriptions
of players that people get when they look at them.
She eventually decided on the latter; you know what race other
characters are, but it doesn’t intervene overtly in interactions
between players.
A trickier issue was what races people were allowed. The
problem with a closed data set (that is, a list of races from which
people should select one) is that not everyone finds a description
with which they feel comfortable. On the basis that MOOScape
was introducing race into virtual worlds, rather than defining it,
Kolko went with an open data set: Despite reservations that
races like elves and lizardfolk would make an appearance,
players are allowed to describe their race in whatever terms
they wished.
The results of the MOOScape experiment should be interesting.
Race only makes sense in the real world; by asking about race,
MOOScape is asking players to reveal something about
themselves, rather than about their characters. If your character
is you, there’s not an issue here, of course: In situations where
the virtual world is being used as an adjunct to reality—hosting
a business meeting, for example—your character is merely an
avatar and people will always relate to you rather than to it.
694 Chapter 6
However, in most virtual worlds your character is not you119
.
In an absolute sense, race is a purely physical property. It does
not transfer to virtual worlds except when referencing a
physical entity (that is, the player—something to be avoided in
virtual worlds if they are to maintain their immersive integrity).
Put bluntly, if you say you want your character to be a certain
(real-world) race in a virtual world, you are arguing only for a
cosmetic change to your character’s appearance. That cosmetic
change may be associated (by you or other players) with certain
real-world cultural baggage, but the nature of this baggage is
dependent on the real-world culture of the players that
participate in or witness it.
For example, let’s suppose that race is a choice. People crossgender play out of curiosity, so we’ll assume that some will
cross-race play, too. Let’s further assume that some non-Asians
play as Asians and truly (rather than in the Nakamura sense) try
to pass. Would they learn about what it is like to be an Asian
that way? No: They would only learn what it is like to be viewed
as an Asian character by the players of that particular virtual
world. They get insights into mind-sets, but not into genetics.
You can’t learn about the physical aspects of a race by roleplaying a member of it; all you can learn about is the culture
with which that race is associated (by its representatives, by
other cultures, and by you). You might learn about any of these,
but they only tell you about states of mind. In Reality, race (like
gender) is a badge that people are forced to wear wherever they
go. In virtual worlds, like it or not, that badge is removed. You
can put it back on your virtual self, but so can anyone. In real
life, people who wear the same badge may feel disposed to
119 Unless you’re totally immersed, of course, in which case you are also your
character.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 695
interact differently with other people depending on the badges
they wear, and cultural differences will arise because of this. In
virtual worlds, badge-wearing is arbitrary; race is therefore
expressed only through the culture of individuals of that race (if
that race has a race-specific culture).
Players of virtual worlds for whom their race is an important
part of their identity have a dilemma here. To be true to
themselves, they want their characters to exhibit the same
indelible mark that they use to define themselves; however, in
virtual worlds these marks are not indelible. Do these people
therefore campaign to bind the cosmetic features of characters
to those of their players (knowing it would be unpoliceable)? Or
do they discard that part of their identity that is coupled to the
nature of their physical body and align with the portable aspects
of their culture instead?
Another important component of identity for people in the real
world is their sexuality. Unlike the situation for race and
gender, people in the real world do not have to wear
irremovable badges that proclaim their sexuality (although they
may choose to present indicators, overt or otherwise). This
means that there’s not much call to implement sexuality as a
physical characteristic in a virtual world120; sexuality-defined
subcultures are not tied to physical markers (although in real
life obviously they are tied to physical activity), and therefore
they transfer reasonably easily to virtual worlds.
Most virtual worlds take no line on sexuality, which (apropos
Nakamura’s argument about race) perhaps means they actually
120 An exception would perhaps be a sex-oriented virtual world, where a
tangible, examinable “sexuality” property for characters might save players
considerable small-talk time.
696 Chapter 6
do take a line—that is, heterosexuality121 is the norm. Actually,
for a fair number of them sexuality really isn’t an issue, because
sex itself isn’t; the subject simply wouldn’t arise in a virtual
world written for children, for example, and the same is true of
many other (particularly gamelike) virtual worlds.
That said, even in gamelike virtual worlds, people do meet and
fall in love. Both heterosexuals and homosexuals can operate in
this kind of environment; it’s pro-heterosexual, but usually
more tolerant than real life (you can play characters of the
opposite gender, after all) and therefore not a major barrier for
homosexuals who (like it or not) are obliged to operate under
these conditions in reality anyway.
The real world has its homosexual subcultures, however, and it’s
natural that people may want to bring theirs with them into
virtual worlds. There are essentially three ways to do it:
• Set up a virtual world for which this is the dominant
culture.
• Join a virtual world that has similar or related
subcultures.
• Incorporate the culture in a ghetto within a regular
virtual world.
Virtual worlds of the first kind do exist, although they are not in
general advertised outside their target player base (probably so
as to avoid attracting homophobes122). They are split by gender,
because the subcultures for men and women are different. The
121 Standard disclaimer: Whatever word I use to describe opposite-sex or
same-sex attraction is going to bother someone, if not today then tomorrow.
I apologize if you’re one of those someones whom this particular word or its
same-sex counterpart annoys.
122 I guess, to be fair, I also ought to apologize to those homophobes who
prefer to use some other word to describe themselves.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 697
two most interesting experiments are both aimed at women,
Shoujo-Ai MUSH123 and Isle of Lesbos124
.
General sex-oriented virtual worlds, which are usually friendly
to people whatever their sexual orientations and preferences,
have been around since Void. Despite what people may think,
players do not spend their whole time in these worlds engaging
in imaginative acts of virtual sex. They are as likely to sit around
chatting about nothing as players in any other virtual world
(although their very nature makes their cliques and
communities quite tightly knit). HavenMUSH125 is probably the
best-known example of this kind of “responsibly adult” world.
Randal Woodland describes126 the third of these approaches (all
of which, incidentally, he calls queer spaces). In examining how
four different online systems (the other three are BBS/forumoriented) cater to homosexual identity, he describes a part of
LambdaMOO called Weaveworld. This subworld is127 both
accessible and distinct from the rest of the virtual world, using a
series of very subtle symbols to indicate to those passers-by
attuned to such things as the nature of its contents. The reasons
for this tactfulness are so as not to appear in-your-face to other
players of LambdaMOO (as both a courtesy to the general
population and a defense against potential hate-players), and to
impart a sense of sophistication (that is, to tell visitors that it’s
not a place built for devotees of narcissistic sex).
123 http://www.shoujoai.com/mush/
124 telnet://muds.crodo.com:6667
125 http://www.geocities.com/HavenMUSH/
126 Randal Woodland, Queer Spaces, Modem Boys, and Pagan Statues:
Gay/Lesbian Identity and the Construction of Cyberspace. 1998. David Bell and
Barbara M. Kennedy (editors), The Cybercultures Reader. New York, Routledge,
2000.
127 Or rather was, because it was removed by its author in 1995.
698 Chapter 6
In terms of the effect of these different queer spaces on identity,
Woodland is reticent. He describes, for example, a case where
the creation of a psychologically safe haven for gay men fell
through because of freedom of speech objections. He doesn’t say
whether in a virtual environment where no one knows who you
are, the issues of psychological safety are different from those of
real life. Can cultural tropes that have evolved in response to
real-life hostility be shed? Are people who follow the same
rituals in virtual worlds that they do in the real one passing up
on liberation, or merely being pragmatic? What are the
implications of a virtual world where every character (if not
player) is the same sex?
To speculate further, for many people gender, race, and
sexuality are part of their real-life identity. They are not of equal
status, however, because of their visibility. Gender is visible in
the real world (through physical characteristics) and in the
virtual world (through pronouns in textual worlds and avatars
in graphical ones). Sexuality is invisible in the real world and
invisible in the virtual world; people who want to display it have
to use signs, which may be understood by everyone (you walk
around with a notice hanging round your neck saying “I am
gay”) or only by those in sync with such matters (Weaveworld’s
references to paganism, sensuality, ancient Greek warriors, and
so on).
Race, however, is visible in the real world but (in the textual case
at least) invisible in virtual worlds. Is race only ultimately
important because it is visible in the real world (in which case,
wouldn’t a virtual world undermine real-life identity?), or is it
legitimately important for cultural or biologically imperative
reasons too (in which case, will people for whom race is
important have to develop their own codified signals for
recognizing one another?).
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 699
There are many questions here to which it would be interesting
to know the answer; unfortunately, the research on virtual
worlds concerned with race and/or sexuality is relatively thin on
the ground128
.
This is in stark contrast to our next topic: gender studies.
Gender Studies
I learned through experience as an undergraduate at Essex
University that as a male I have been irredeemably socialized to
hold oppressive, androcentric views about all things gender and
that therefore my opinions on the subject are worth less than
nothing. Even seemingly neutral actions on my part are
inherently tainted by my early conditioning and testosteronecharged world-view, so can therefore only be regarded as
manifestations of my poisoned, male psyche. Consequently, if
you don’t want the purity of your beliefs about gender issues
adulterated, you should skip this section.
For those of you who know sarcasm when you see it, read on….
The general point here is correct: Anything people say about
gender is inevitably moderated by their own experiences.
Whatever I write on the subject—even my selection of research
paper references—really is influenced by my upbringing and
physiology. However, the same applies to every individual on
the planet, so I’m not alone in that; furthermore, it isn’t only
true for gender studies, but pretty well “anything else,” too.
Much work in gender studies is from a feminist perspective129
,
which makes my position slightly more dubious. There isn’t a
lot I can do about this, though. I shall strive to be impartial
128 Alternatively, I haven’t looked in the right places.
129 Not as much as the casual observer might think, however.
700 Chapter 6
(although not necessarily unopinionated where virtual worlds
are concerned); if I slip up you can blame me, not my gender.
So here we go….
Gender Studies is not Sex Studies; there is a difference between
sex, and gender, essentially anthropological. Sex is a biological
condition; gender refers to the behaviors associated with the
sexes. Sex is uniform across all cultures; gender varies across
cultures.
Gender influences people in two main ways: Through their
gender identity (that is, their feeling of being male or female) and
through their gender roles (that is, what their society establishes
as appropriate behavior for females and males). Although there
are only two sexes, some societies have more than two genders
(usually to account for individuals whose biological sex does not
match their gender identity). Gender roles may have a biological
origin (the “boys will be boys” argument) or a cultural
evolutionary one (tribes whose womenfolk fought and died
alongside their menfolk had fewer babies than ones where only
the menfolk fought, so the former were eventually outnumbered
and defeated by the latter). Alternatively, gender roles may arise
as the result of pressures from other cultural activities.
Although this is the classic, anthropological view of gender, it is
not one that is universally held among gender theorists. They
regard sex as an essentialist concept (that is, something that has
intrinsic meaning beyond what perception reveals), whereas
their preference is for a more constructivist130 approach (that is,
that things only have the meanings that individuals construct
130 The tendency to look at things in absolutist ways is regarded as typically a
male trait, whereas taking a more discursive approach is considered a mainly
female quality.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 701
for them based on the sensory data). This would suggest that
sex/gender were part of the same system, but as Tomasz Mazur
describes in an early review131 of how gender studies theory
applies to virtual worlds, this doesn’t work either—it flounders
on the concept of identity. Mazur argues that virtual worlds
themselves have a similar problem, with “real” being essentialist
and “virtual” being constructivist, and identity existing in both
and neither at the same time. He adopts a post-modernist132
stance to address these issues.
Problematical though the fundamentals may be at a
philosophical level, this is not something that normally
concerns students of gender with regard to virtual worlds.
Rather, they are primarily interested in two specific aspects of
player behavior that introduce new variables into their own
equations: cross-gender play and virtual sex. I’ll take these in that
order.
If there were a pill that changed your real-life sex for one day
only, would you take it? The science isn’t important—a mass of
nanotechnology DNA-tampering machines could perhaps do
it—but would you take it? Why would you want to? Why
wouldn’t you want to? What would the effect be on gender
issues in a world where anyone could take such a pill?
In virtual worlds, that pill is already available, without
prescription.
The paper that brought the practice of cross-gender play to the
attention of nonplayers was Amy Bruckman’s Gender Swapping
131 Tomasz Mazur, Working Out the Cyberbody: Sex and Gender Constructions in
Text-Based Virtual Space. Department of English, University of Florida, 1994.
http://www.well.com/user/tmazur/ research/sexgen.html.
132 Postmodernism is discussed in a later section of this chapter.
702 Chapter 6
on the Internet133. This followed up on some of the activity she
had noted in her earlier Identity Workshop paper, and includes
interviews and other set pieces that have been heavily quoted by
later researchers. She observed two behavioral patterns in
particular that were to resonate with many people: That female
characters are subjected to unwanted sexual advances; that
female characters are assumed to be in need of help.
Bruckman indirectly suggests that the two may be related.
Offers of help can be viewed as tokens of interest; by accepting
the token, the recipient is signifying their acceptance of the
other person’s interest; they are then obligated to respond
favorably. Although some may see this as buying favor—and it
may well be just that in some cases—it isn’t always. Sometimes,
it’s just social interaction. Similarly, whether an offer of help is
an esteem-damaging, patronizing assumption of vulnerability
or the first move in a mating game depends largely on the
attitudes of the players involved.
Unusually, Bruckman views gender as just one aspect of
identity, on a par with (say) nationality. I share this view, but it’s
not one that cuts much ice with those who politicize gender;
Bruckman has been criticized for taking this position. I
personally find it difficult to see why gender should be
preeminent; race and sexuality are perhaps as much a part of a
person’s identity as their gender, but these don’t get anywhere
near the coverage that gender does. Perhaps it’s more to do with
the way that most languages (through pronouns) force gender
133 Amy S. Bruckman, Gender Swapping on the Internet. San Francisco,
Proceedings of International Networking Conference, 1993.
http://www.cc.gatech.edu/elc/papers/bruckman/ gender-swappingbruckman.pdf.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 703
to be an issue; race and sexuality are not denoted in this way,
and therefore have a much lower profile134
.
Bruckman characterizes gender as being malleable in virtual
worlds. She means in the self, not in the character, but other
researchers don’t always realize this and have occasionally
questioned it. Bruckman, as (by then) a player of virtual worlds,
could understand the difference between real and virtual self
from an experiential point of view; researchers who have only
an intellectual understanding are more prone to miss the point.
Sherry Turkle also writes about cross-gender play in Life on the
Screen (in her Chapter 8); she even interviews some of the same
people as Bruckman. She sees cross-gender play as challenging
and psychologically complicated; characters that are neither
male nor female she finds disturbing, yet evocative. As a result
of her studies, she puts forward the hypothesis that gender
exploration is a valid part of identity exploration in general; it
can lead to the development of a person as an individual, due (at
least) to the extension of their emotional range that it
stimulates.
The existence of genders other than male and female in some
virtual worlds is discussed135 by Brenda Danet. Danet regards
gender as a tyranny, and is therefore interested in the
opportunities presented by the Internet—where all
conventional gender cues are absent—for gender-free
existence. She looked at Internet Relay Chat (IRC) and MOOs,
and found that in both, individuals can successfully camouflage
134 The other obvious explanation is that gender identity really is of preeminent importance for most people, and I’m some kind of an exception who
can’t ever hope to understand it at an emotional level.
135 Brenda Danet, Text as Mask: Gender and Identity on the Internet. Venice,
Proceedings of Conference on Masquerade and Gendered Identity, 1996.
http://atar.mscc.huji.ac.il/~msdanet/ mask.html.
704 Chapter 6
their identities for very long periods. Cross-gender play in
MOOs, though, was much more elaborate than in IRC136
.
MOOs typically have more than the usual two genders available
to them137, some of which may be considered a third gender,
others a non-commitment to gender, and others completely
genderless. Examples include:
• Neutral (“Sam puts its cards on the table”)
• Either (“Sam puts his/her cards on the table”)
• Plural (“Sam puts their cards on the table”)
• Spivak138 (“Sam puts eir cards on the table”)
• Person (“Sam puts per cards on the table”)
From my point of view, this is interesting because in MUD1 I
didn’t want gender to be a tangible property of characters. My
own dialect of English—Yorkshire—uses near-plural by default
for people whose gender is unknown or unspecified (as you will
doubtless have noticed in this book, where I habitually refer to
singular but generic players as “they” or “them”). As a student, I
was once told off for using the word “themself” in a report,
which up until then I hadn’t even considered not to be an
English word139. For me, if I were informed that a new teacher
had joined a school, it would be perfectly natural to ask “what’s
136 This is perhaps ironic, given that nowadays people with an interest in
gender studies (including Danet herself) will typically look at the far more
researcher-friendly IRC than at MOOs.
137 The same is not in general true of adventure-style games except those for
which a fiction for other sexes exists—it’s too hard on immersion otherwise.
Perhaps in time this may change as Reality changes.
138 Named after mathematician Michael Spivak, who uses this system in his
books (most notably Michael Spivak, The Joy of TeX. Providence RI, The
American Mathematical Society, 1990).
139 The spell-checker built into the word processor I am using to type this
doesn’t believe it to be a word either; it kept helpfully converting it to
“themselves” when I wrote it just now, until I insisted.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 705
their name?” rather than “what’s his or her name?”140. This
approach was not suitable for MUD1, though, because for nondialect speakers it looked bizarre (although it has since gained
much wider acceptance, at least in England) and because
sustaining it when gender is known is untenable.
My preferred alternative to implementing gender was to use a
pronoun-free denotational approach instead (“Sam puts Sam’s
cards on the table”), but I abandoned this on the grounds that it
was too intrusive—I wanted to draw people into the virtual
world, and the erection of constant billboards that said they
were reading text was too much of an interference141. It’s
amusing to note that neither of the ways I considered for the
linguistic avoidance of gender (near-plural142 or denotational)
have found any currency in MOOs.
Danet looked at gender choices for two large MOOs:
LambdaMOO and (Amy Bruckman’s) MediaMOO143. Both have
non-binary gender classifications in place, and Danet examined
the proportion of players who chose to take advantage of the
alternatives to male/female that were available. She found that
on LambdaMOO, roughly 50% of the characters were male, 30%
140 In some heavily gendered languages, it’s impossible to refer to a teacher
without revealing the teacher’s gender because the word for “teacher” has a
different ending depending on whether the individual is male or female. This
must be tricky in situations where you don’t want to convey the gender of
the teacher, for example, so as not to inflame a jealous spouse.
141 It also meant awkward constructions like “Sam did it Sam’s self.”
142 That is, “themself” rather than “themselves”—we may not know their
gender, but we know there’s only one of them. This is also known as the
singular they; see Henry Churchyard’s anti-pedantry work for details.
http://www.crossmyt.com/hc/linghebr/austheir.html. For an in-depth look at
gender-neutral pronouns in general, see John Williams’s The Gender-Neutral
Pronoun FAQ. http://www.aetherlumina.com/gnp/.
143 http://www.cc.gatech.edu/fac/Amy.Bruckman/MediaMOO/
706 Chapter 6
were female and 20% were neither; on MediaMOO, 50% were
male, 20% were female and 30% were neither.
There may be any number of reasons for this difference.
Perhaps the media professionals of MediaMOO have a more
progressive attitude to gender, or the balance of players’ reallife genders in the two games is significantly different. Danet’s
observation that the real-life identity (and therefore gender) of
MediaMOO’s players is known, whereas that of LambdaMOO’s
isn’t, muddies the waters still further. Are MediaMOO players
more likely to make gender-political statements, knowing that
they may be called to account afterward if they don’t? Or is the
fact that no one can accuse them of attempting to be deceitful
by playing with their gender a liberating factor?
Danet’s paper ends with 11 questions for future research into
cross-gender play, all of which have yet to be fully answered.
I should point out at this stage that there are two opposing
views concerning whether cross-gender play is a good thing or
a bad thing. They can be summarized as
• Cross-gender play is good, because it emancipates the
individual.
• Cross-gender play is bad, because it subjugates the
group.
At one level, its researchers’ views are inconsequential: Crossgender play happens, and it will continue to happen no matter
what people believe should happen and no matter what ideology
they want it to fit. They can’t stop it, police it or exploit it, so
incorporating it into their theories is purely an academic
exercise. Virtual designers know implicitly, however, that things
can be done to promote one side of the argument over the other,
thereby encouraging or discouraging the practice. Creating
mechanisms for characters’ gender to flip periodically through
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 707
the use of magic or magiclike effects, for example, would
encourage cross-gender play144; making graphical avatars
physically plain (if not ugly) would discourage it.
So, let’s look at some of the objections in more detail.
One of the hopes that feminists had about cross-gender play
was that it would lead to a fluidity of gender. Lori Kendall points
out145 that in practice it does the opposite: People come to
entertain a more rigid understanding of gender identities than
they had before. They focus on the “true” identity behind the
mask, rather than the one that is presented146. Women came to
virtual worlds later than men, therefore the cultures they had to
join were already in place when they arrived, and thus the
likelihood of changing this situation is not going to increase by
much even if more women do participate in these virtual
worlds—at least, not unless everyone makes a conscious effort.
This argument looks fine on the face of it, but it relies on
regarding virtual worlds as extensions of Reality. In an absolute
sense, they are part of Reality and therefore can indeed be
considered physical extensions of it. They are not, however,
extensions of the models of Reality that players have in their
heads. Even social MOOs are separate from reality, as many
players understand immediately and those that don’t will come
to realize in the long-term. The hardware that supports each
virtual world, and therefore the implementation of the virtual
worlds, is in Reality; however, the virtual worlds themselves
144 Given that I did this in MUD1 (for reasons explained in Chapter 3’s Polly’s
Tale), I guess my own views on the subject are fairly unequivocal.
145 Lori Kendall, MUDder? I Hardly Know ‘Er! Adventures of a Feminist MUDder.
Lynn Cherny and Elizabeth Reba Weise (editors), Wired_Women. Seattle, Seal
Press, 1996.
http://www.rochester.edu/College/FS/Publications/KendallMUD.html.
146 In this sense, they’re taking an essentialist point of view.
708 Chapter 6
only exist in the imaginations of their players. They’re not
worlds because they are worlds; they’re worlds because people
think they’re worlds. What’s more, players think these worlds
are not the real world.
The only things that exist in both the virtual world and the real
world are the players’ identities. Kendall is correct in her
observation that gender types in virtual worlds can be very
stereotypical, tending to crystallize around some falsely
perceived “essence” for each gender. Where I believe her to be
mistaken is in concluding that these only serve to reinforce
existing notions of gender and therefore add to the general
woes of women (in particular) when they are acted on in real
life. For players who can’t yet separate the real from the virtual,
this may be true; for the rest, it isn’t147
.
Characters and players both move. The formal role that a
character takes on may be some stylization of a false perception
of Reality, but experience in playing that role will change both
the character and the player. The character will change when
behavioral expectations meet the reality of other players’
attitudes; the player will change when these expectations meet
the player’s own attitudes. There is a fluidity of gender identity,
and the stereotype drives it; in other words, where the
stereotype exists it’s to show that it’s wrong.
Over time, the relevance of both Kendall’s and my positions may
diminish. As players’ experience with virtual worlds grows, it
could be that gender moves on and that stereotypes become
irrelevant. While newbies still arrive with real-world gender
issues to address, however, the likelihood of any such paradigm
shift’s occurring is doubtful.
147 As Mizuko Ito perceptively notes in her Virtually Embodied paper, virtual
worlds are not a commentary on or reflection of real life; they aren’t even
about real life. They’re spaces in their own right.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 709
A second objection is raised by Jocelyne Voisin. She points out148
that in radical feminist theories, separatism sometimes plays a
central role: The creation of a woman-only environment is seen
the only way to escape patriarchal oppression. In the real world,
such safe haven environments do exist—spaces from which
men are banned—but they are relatively small in number. A
separatist virtual world would be easier for many women to
reach, and more conducive than real life to discovering whether
the assumed benefits of such an environment (a supportive,
egalitarian, nurturing community) would in fact arise and be
sustainable over the long term. Gender masquerading, however,
rules this out as a possibility: If there’s no way to tell that a
female-presenting character has a biologically female player
running it, the extent to which these spaces can be considered
exclusively feminine is limited.
Voisin is right: Cross-gender play does undermine such feminist
virtual utopias (as transsexuals pose problems for real-life
“female-only” spaces). Deliberate infiltration of a female space is
not likely to happen often, but even so that may be more often
than is acceptable. Unfortunately for the radicals, there’s very
little that can be done about this; even proof of real-life identity
when an account was created doesn’t guarantee that the person
later using the account is the one whose identity was proven149
.
Creating a virtual world with all-female characters doesn’t
mean you’ll get all-female players; the only way to guarantee allfemale players is to have them under constant real-world
surveillance as they play—hardly a situation that could be
described as supportive or egalitarian. So although cross-gender
play validates feminist conspiracy theorists’ worst fears, it’s
148 Jocelyne Voisin, Women’s Virtual Communities: Utopia or Dystopia?
Department of Mass Communications, Carleton University, 1995.
149 A common excuse for regretted misbehavior in commercial virtual worlds
is that “someone else was using my character.” Sometimes, it’s actually true.
710 Chapter 6
unstoppable and unavoidable; taking an uncompromising view
of it isn’t going to change a thing.
Countering that view is the suggestion made by Michèle White
that perhaps virtual worlds are intrinsically not female-friendly
places anyway, at least as they are currently designed. White’s
complaint150 is that the commands used in MOOs to obtain
information about other players suggest a surveillant attitude
and use voyeuristic terminology (“watch,” “scope,” “glance,”
“peep,” “gawk,” “examine,” and so on). The “look” command
itself, with the third-person messages it triggers, is worst of all;
frequently, new players are distressed when they are
continually looked at by other players. The concept of “gaze” is
important in feminist theories, because implicit in it is a
communication between the gazer and the gazee. MOOs
unequivocally empower the gazer: Gazing is active; self-image is
passive. In other words, you describe yourself for the benefit of
the person who looks, not for the benefit of yourself. This limits
the identity constructs that people can create, which is bad for
everyone no matter what gender they are playing.
I have some sympathy with White’s position. In my own virtual
worlds, players don’t get to describe their characters—I believe
that allowing it anchors character development too much. On
the other hand, looking at a character is permitted (it concocts a
brief description based on their tangible properties), along with
large numbers of other commands that have characters as their
objects (including “hit”). Although White herself doesn’t argue
this, anyone willing to construe such commands as empowering
those who issue them at the expense of those against whom
they are issued would surmise that virtual worlds (even
150 Michèle White, Visual Pleasure in Textual Places: Gazing in Multi-User
Object-Oriented Worlds. Eileen Green and Alison Adam, Virtual Gender:
Terminology, Consumption and Identity. New York, Routledge, 2001.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 711
graphical ones) were less than ideal. Quite how to implement
these kinds of commands some other way is non-obvious, too.
That said, virtual worlds are still much better than the real one
in this respect, because at least the “empowering” actions are
open to anyone.
Returning to the issue of how cross-gender play undermines
attempts to set up female-only virtual communities, it could be
that the problem might be worse in theory than in practice; it
depends on the actual incidence of cross-gender play. If far
fewer men play as female characters than anecdotal evidence
suggests, the effects of their presence might amount to mere
background noise. It would therefore be very useful if empirical
evidence existed to show how widespread cross-gender playing
really is. At a more general level, it would also be very nice to
know if the predictions as to why people play across gender are
in fact accurate.
I know of two studies that have attempted to answer these
questions151
.
The first study is by Kathryn Wright, who is the resident
consulting psychologist at womengamers.com152. Her
perspective is that of female computer game players (among
whom she numbers), rather than of gender studies;
nevertheless, the results of her study153 are relevant in this
context.
Wright surveyed men who played female characters across a
variety of game types, but mainly those of first-person shooters
151 This means there are probably two dozen more that I don’t know about.
152 http://www.womengamers.com. Hey, consistency is consistency!
153 Kathryn Wright, Gender Bending in Games. Womengamers.com, 2000.
http://www.womengamers.com/articles/gender.html.
http://www.womengamers.com/articles/gender2.htm.
712 Chapter 6
and (gamelike) graphical virtual worlds. 57% of her respondents
(all of whom claimed to be male in real life) played as female
characters for over half the time. Respondents were asked to
describe in their own words why they played as female
characters; when Wright analyzed the results, she found they
fell into the following categories154:
• 25% said it added to the role-playing experience (of which
19% cited gender exploration as a motivation).
• 23% did it for the visual stimulation (that is, sexual
aesthetics155).
• 19% did it because the avatars were smaller and harder to
see/hit.
• 16% did it to be given gifts.
• 14% did it because female characters had better skills.
• 14% said they preferred the modeling (that is, non-sexual
aesthetics).
• 13% did it for variety.
• 11% did it to get a psychological edge over the other
players.
• 6% preferred the sounds that female avatars made.
• 6% did it to amuse themselves at the reactions of male
players.
• 6% did it from habit: They started, and hadn’t found a
reason to stop.
Although role-playing comes out as the top reason, many others
are for gameplay purposes, that is, female characters have an
edge for whatever reason, and so they are played as a means to
an end. Wright anticipated this and asked a series of follow-up
154 Some respondents gave several reasons, and answers are rounded to the
nearest percent; this is why they add up to more than 100%.
155 If you have to stare at a character’s backside the whole time you play, you
may as well enjoy the view.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 713
questions; read her papers if you want to know what she found
(it’s interesting, but not relevant to the current discussion).
As a final question, Wright asked whether cross-gender players
thought there was a correlation between men who played as
women and men who were homosexual or confused about their
gender; this was in response to something that happened when
she advertised for respondents to her survey (she was accused
of doing the survey in order to meet homosexual EverQuest
players). She found that among the respondents themselves
• 60% said there was no correlation.
• 15% said there may be for some people, but not for everyone.
• 12% said there was for them personally, but not for everyone.
• 12% didn’t answer.
Wright notes that no cross-gender players reported a belief that
men who play as female characters are homosexual by default.
Wright’s survey was limited, in that she had 64 respondents of
which only 33 actually completed her survey (the rest gave their
opinions via email). She concluded that lumping together roleplaying, fighting and action gamers was inadvisable, because
too many answers were dependent on the type of game that the
players played. Nevertheless, her results do suggest that some
cross-gender players really do perform it for reasons of
exploring their identity.
A much more formal and detailed survey156 was undertaken by
Lynne Roberts and Malcolm Parks in 2000. Their methods were
156 Lynne D. Roberts and Malcolm R. Parks, The Social Geography of GenderSwitching in Virtual Environments on the Internet. Eileen Green and Alison
Adam, Virtual Gender: Terminology, Consumption and Identity. New York,
Routledge, 2001.
714 Chapter 6
very thorough: They selected the largest two social MOOs plus
five others chosen at random, and from these selected (also at
random) 1,200 candidate characters157 that had been played
during the previous 14 days. A second study included players of
role-playing MOOs. The candidates were contacted individually,
and around 30% agreed to take part.
Unlike Wright’s survey, which looked only at the cross-gender
players themselves, Roberts’s and Parks’s examined the views of
all players on the subjects. Their findings make very interesting
reading. For example, they discovered that the male/female
player breakdown158 in the MOOs they surveyed approached
parity (48.1% female in study 1, 47.0% in study 2); this is a much
higher ratio than is common for regular computer games159
.
Roberts and Parks discovered that around 60% of the players of
social MOOs had never played cross-gender, but that around
20% were engaged in it at some time during the 14 days the
survey covered. In role-playing MOOs, 43.3% had never tried it
but 40.0% were currently cross-gender playing. Including all the
personality and sexuality tests that the studies incorporated,
playing in a role-playing MOO was found to be the greatest
predictor that an individual selected at random from the
respondents was or had tried cross-gender playing. Perhaps
surprisingly, real-life gender was not found to be a predictor of
cross-gender play: Female players were as likely to play another
gender as were male players.
157 Not players, because it was possible for multiple characters belonging to
the same player to be selected.
158 Assuming that the respondents weren’t lying about their real-life gender,
of course.
159 It’s rumored to be way higher—90%+ real-life females—in some
PernMUSHes.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 715
I said “another gender” there, because of course MOOs have
multiple genders. 78.7% of cross-gender play was found to be to
the opposite gender (that is, male or female) of the real-life
player, whereas the remaining cross-gender160 players opted for
something else; this is in line with Danet’s figures from
LambdaMOO four years earlier.
As for why they played across genders, the reasons players gave
were consistent but the proportions varied between those who
were currently doing it and those who had tried it but stopped.
Among current cross-gender players, 31.3% said it was part of
role-playing or a challenge to their role-playing skills, whereas
13.4% of former cross-gender players did. Conversely, 13.5% of
current cross-gender players said they had started cross-gender
playing to experiment with gender, whereas 34.3% of former
cross-gender players did. Why there should be this reversal
clearly merits further investigation.
The surveys produced many other results about who crossgender plays and why; read the paper itself for the full details.
From the point of the discussion here, there are two issues the
results raise that are of particular importance.
Firstly, the studies do seem to show that cross-gender play is a
widespread activity. Roberts and Parks themselves do not
conclude that it is prevalent, pointing out that although many
players had played cross-gender in the two-week period the
study covered, only 22.6% of those Study 1 respondents who had
done so had spent more than 60% of their playing time pursuing
the activity. For Study 2, the figures were better: 31.5% of crossgender players spent more than 70% of their time doing it, of
which 20% said they played the whole time during the previous
160 Roberts and Parks call it gender switching, which is a more accurate term
in non-binary circumstances.
716 Chapter 6
two weeks as a gender other than their real-life one. Roberts
and Parks are correct that cross-gender play isn’t prevalent (if
“prevalent” means “more than 50%,” which from a strictly
statistical point of view it must); their results would seem to
indicate that it’s quite a common activity, though, even in
purely social (as opposed to role-playing) MOOs. I suspect that
the figures for goal-oriented virtual worlds would be higher,
since players of these are more formally embarked on an
exercise of identity exploration161; my only caveat is that some
people object to cross-gender play in principle, and these may
be more common in such gamelike worlds.
This brings me to the second point of special significance in
Roberts’s and Park’s results: Why people don’t play crossgender. The studies found that many of those players who had
never played cross-gender believed that the activity was
manipulative, was used to lure people into having virtual sex,
and was a way to cause trouble for people who didn’t do it. They
were upset and uncomfortable when confronted by someone
not playing as their biological sex. Personally, I’m very
disappointed by this; the cited activities are ones that crossgender play should weaken, not strengthen! I can only hope that
the people who hold these points of view do so out of ignorance,
and that as they come to understand the difference between the
real and the virtual (that is, that there is one) they may revise
their opinions162
.
As I mentioned earlier, Roberts’s and Parks’s survey showed
that cross-gender playing by female players was far more
common than is usually supposed; their studies showed that it
happened as often as it did for male players. The reasons that
161 This isn’t to say that they’re necessarily aware they’re undertaking the
hero’s journey, just that they know (at least implicitly) that there is a journey
involved.
162 I’m sure they feel the same way about me, too.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 717
women play cross-gender are different, however. A short
article163 by (female) player Natalia, who plays as a male
character 90% of the time, explains that she does it mainly to
avoid the nuisance of unwanted attention that female
characters get (gifts and pickup lines). This treatment of female
characters has been noted many times before, however a point
that Natalia makes which is often not reported is that it’s only a
very small minority of players who make playing as a female
character unpleasant—sometimes only one in the whole virtual
world. After all, when she plays as a male character and doesn’t
hit on female characters, no one comments at all—it isn’t
regarded as unusual. This would seem to suggest that
intervention by the community management team could
eliminate the problem, at least in relatively small virtual worlds.
Daphne Desser undertook a small study164 of women who mask
their gender in virtual worlds, to judge the effectiveness of
female rhetorical practices in an environment where gender
was not a factor. The theory is that in real life, women use social
connections through language, gestures (nodding, smiling, and
so on) and linguistic tags that show agreement; this is because
they have diminished power in patriarchal real-life societies. In
virtual worlds, where no one need know a player’s real-life
gender, such defensive insertions should not be necessary;
women have the same social and physical presence as men.
Previous studies of chat groups had suggested that even when
women are gender-masked by pseudonyms, they are still more
vulnerable than gender-masked men to harassment. This would
mean that somehow people were picking up on the fact that
they were “harassable” (if not that they were female); if women
163 It was on the popular but now defunct Game Commandos web site, lost
even to www.archive.org. Unfortunately, this means you’ll have to trust me
as to the content of the article (written February 1999).
164 Daphne Desser, Gender Morphing in Cyberspace. University of Michigan,
Journal of Electronic Publishing, Vol. 6 (1), September 2000.
718 Chapter 6
did not change their discursive style of interaction even when
playing cross-gender, that could perhaps explain it.
Desser analyzed transcripts of gender-masked chat sessions
from LinguaMOO165, and discovered that real-life females do
indeed still use social connections much more than real-life
males; their behavior in virtual worlds in this respect was not
substantially different to their behavior in the real world. Desser
sees this as an indictment of the power that real-life expectation
wields to cause people to conform to gender roles166
.
She also, however, looked at the behavior of male characters
playing as female characters, to see whether their behavior was
equally unchanged. Perhaps surprisingly, she found that it
wasn’t: The vocabulary of males playing as females alters in a
way that the vocabulary of females playing as males doesn’t.
This may well be because men have a stronger stereotype to
work to than women; on the other hand, it could be that men
are more willing to behave differently than women. It would
take a much wider study to determine whether men were, in
practice, any better at cross-gender play than women,
however167
.
The differences between male and female characters has been
the subject of speculation for many years. Back in 1994, Lynn
165 http://lingua.utdallas.edu/
166 Alternatively, of course, it may be that the different sexes are wired up
differently. As Mindy McAdams succinctly puts it, “if my body is female, is
my mind also female?” Mindy J. McAdams, Gender Without Bodies. CMC
Magazine, March 1996.
http://www.december.com/cmc/mag/1996/mar/mcadams.html.
167 An interesting project that may provide the answer is The Turing Game.
See Joshua Berman and Amy S. Bruckman, The Turing Game: Exploring
Identity in an Online Environment. Convergence Vol. 7 (3), 2001.
http://www.cc.gatech.edu/~asb/papers/convergence-tg-01.pdf.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 719
Cherny examined168 behavioral differences in JaysHouseMOO, a
small virtual world where many of the players knew each other
in real life and didn’t switch gender. She discovered that in this
context, men and women treat their virtual bodies differently:
Women engage in hugs and other cuddlesome contacts with
one another, but otherwise don’t interact “physically” much
beyond that; men, conversely, have a much wider range of
emotes, some of which evoke quite violent imagery. When
women use such emotes, it’s almost invariably when in the
presence of men who are using them; Cherny suggests they’re
adapting to male behavior so as to fit in.
Cherny’s work pointed to differences between male and female
behavior in non-anonymous virtual worlds. Whether these
differences could be used as “gender fingerprints” to spot crossgender playing in a virtual world with anonymity is another
matter, of course. Spotting cross-gender playing isn’t easy even
when you’re looking (which, most of the time, people aren’t).
In Kathryn Wright’s survey, players were asked whether they
felt they could tell the real-life gender of characters accurately.
She found:
• 50% believed they couldn’t.
• 31% believed they could most of the time.
• 19% believed they could sometimes, but couldn’t at other
times, depending on the skills of the person doing it.
As I indicated in Chapter 3, it’s actually not all that hard to pass
as someone you are not (irrespective of their gender) if you
know what you’re doing. I’ve played characters incognito for
168 Lynn Cherny, Gender Differences in Text-Based Virtual Reality. Berkeley,
Proceedings of Berkeley Conference on Women and Language, 1994.
ftp://ftp.lambda.moo.mud.org/pub/MOO/papers/GenderMOO.tex.
720 Chapter 6
years at a time. Two of those that lasted for over 24 months of
pretty well daily play were female, and neither was detected. I
even had people asking me if I were female in real life when my
female alter ego was playing a male character, their having “seen
through” her charade. My experiences are not uncommon.
Someone who made a real study of it and read all the literature
could perhaps keep something like this up indefinitely (although
quite why they’d want to do so isn’t clear).
For instance, it’s often observed that no men play unsexy female
characters169. Whether this is any different from what women
do is immaterial—it’s the perception that counts. So, knowing
that people commonly believe that men don’t play unsexy
females, the crafty male cross-gender player will reduce his
chance of being outed by masquerading as an unsexy female.
The same applies to all other metrics for detecting differences
between the genders, once the diligent role-player has read up
on them.
Gender is an important part of the identity of many individuals
in the real world. Crossing gender therefore raises important
questions: Does it give people a wider appreciation of the
opposite sex? Or does it give them a dangerously false
impression?
In real life, gender has a biological basis. Male and female exist
because that’s how human beings reproduce. Virtual worlds
enable people to escape their bodies, and be whatever gender
they wish.
169 For an arbitrary example of this, see Jonny Nexus, Men in Dresses. Critical
Miss 2, 1999. “No bloke ever plays an ugly, unsexy woman.”
http://www.criticalmiss.com/issue2/mid1.html.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 721
Well, that’s the conceit. Unfortunately, although you can take
the person out of the body, you can’t take the body out of the
person. If the virtual person is told a joke, their real-world body
may laugh; if something very upsetting happens, their realworld body may cry; if they get excited, their real-world heart
will definitely beat faster and they may get an adrenaline rush.
Real-world bodies can react to virtual-world events, because the
player’s mind is in both places at once.
This brings us to the second activity of players of virtual worlds
that interests gender theorists: virtual sex.
The practice goes by many names, including netsex, cybersex,
tinysex, and worse. I’ll be following Sherry Turkle’s line and
calling it virtual sex, because that’s its most accurate
designation. It occurs only in textual worlds and the text
channels of graphical worlds170
.
Virtual sex was not common in early, adventure-style virtual
worlds, only really taking off with TinyMUD and its immediate
descendants171. Whether this was because the worlds or the
players were more social, or because there wasn’t a great deal
else to do in them, is a matter for conjecture.
As for what virtual sex is, well in practical terms it’s a series of
emoted actions that simulate a sexual encounter. The command
:bats the ball to Jill.
when issued by a player called Jack will create the message
170 Attempts to produce graphical forms of virtual sex (for example, with
SeduCity, http://www. seducity.com) have met with limited success. Players
don’t have the exquisite level of control they require, and in many countries
the law is stricter about explicit images than explicit words.
171 Hence, the term “tinysex.”
722 Chapter 6
Jack bats the ball to Jill.
Jill can then enter the command
:returns with a sliced backhand.
to generate the message
Jill returns with a sliced backhand.
Okay, so I’m showing how you’d use emotes to play virtual
tennis here, but virtual sex is the same except that it entails
much ritual removal of virtual clothes and inserting virtual
objects into virtual containers. If the characters involved are not
binary-gendered, they make up their own ways to exchange
virtual bodily fluids, usually involving intermingling supersensitive tentacle organs.
Transcripts of virtual sex taking place are presented in Laurel
Gilber’s early investigation172 into the phenomenon. As is usual
with logs, these appear dead on the page; it looks like you really
had to be there to appreciate the emotion of the moment.
Gilber’s analysis takes a post-modern approach that manages
(as is almost inevitable with post-modernism173) to explain
absolutely everything without actually telling you any more
than you knew anyway. However, she does make some
interesting points, most notably that because seduction174 is
172 Laurel Gilber, Virtual Sex: The Final Frontier. 1995.
http://www.usyd.edu.au/su/social/ papers/gilber2.txt.
173 As I mentioned earlier, Post-modernism—the science of fitting facts to
post-modernist theories—is discussed later in this chapter.
174 She uses this word in a more stylized fashion than usual, but the
sentiment is the same.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 723
involved in these encounters they are not pornography. She also
points out that in a world where AIDS is a dangerous reality,
virtual sex is a much safer prospect.
But why engage in virtual sex? It’s perfectly possible to fall in
love with someone remotely without having to enact a romp in
the hay. In the days before email, people occasionally fell in love
by exchanging correspondence with individuals whom they had
never met. Even in virtual worlds, it happens through mere
conversation: At one stage in British Legends I was able to trace a
chain of 14 people who had fallen in love with someone who
professed to love someone else. What does emoting the sex act
give that whispering sweet nothings doesn’t?
In her Life on the Screen examination of the issues, Sherry Turkle
focuses on the effect of virtual sex on real-life relationships. She
asks whether to have virtual sex is to be unfaithful, and whether
the violation of trust amounts to infidelity. Again, though, the
same could be said about explicit email exchanges; it’s not
something that virtual sex delivers which is unavailable by
other means, and neither is it of practical use in real life175
.
Jennifer Mulcahy examines176 virtual sex as an aspect of virtual
romance. When people form relationships, either the
relationship is real (in the minds of the participants) or it is
simply role-play. In the former context, virtual sex can be used
as a means to seek out potential partners for relationships, or to
consummate/strengthen an existing relationship; in the latter
175 Although it’s possible to learn new sexual techniques this way, you’d
probably get much more out of a respectable sex manual.
176 Jennifer K. Mulcahy, Romance—Online: A Study of the Internet’s Effect on
Romance in America. 1996.
http://www.intercom.publinet.it/ic11/romance.htm. Warning: This version of
the article is in Italian, the original English incarnation having seemingly
disappeared from the web except in search engine caches.
724 Chapter 6
context, it can be a personal exploration of sexual identity or a
way to have some relaxing fun. Clearly, there are problems if
one virtual lover thinks they’re in a relationship and the other
doesn’t.
Mulcahy also looks at FurryMUCKs, some of which have a very
sexually liberal culture177. In these, players take on the role of
humanoid animals, reacting as animals to various degrees.
Citing a player who genuinely178 believes he’s a porcupine
trapped in a human’s body, Mulcahy hypothesizes that players
often don’t want to meet their partners in real life because it
would collapse the images that they have built in their heads
concerning their virtual lovers. In this situation, virtual sex
takes place because real sex can’t. She makes the important
point that the actuality of physical attraction can stop a virtual
relationship—no matter how intense—in its tracks. Players
enjoying the experience of a virtual relationship implicitly
understand this, and may therefore be apprehensive about
meeting their partners in real life.
So, is it that virtual sex is the lust that accompanies virtual love?
Shannon McRae also looks at the use of anthropomorphic
characters in her discussion179 of virtual sex, in particular the
symbolism involved. Players’ choice of what animal to play
reflects their attitudes to sex: A wolf, for example, is likely to be
very dominant and predatory, whereas a rabbit would be timid
177 Contrary to the belief of a certain class of newbie, however, the letters
“urryM” in “FurryMUCK” are not spurious.
178 This is Mulcahy’s word; I don’t believe such superficial nonsense for a
moment.
179 Shannon McRae, Flesh Made Word: Sex, Text and the Virtual Body. David
Porter (editor), Internet Culture. New York, Routledge, 1997. It’s also in
Wired_Women. http://www.usyd.edu.au/su/social/ papers/mcrae.html.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 725
and submissive. Virtual sex in this context allows players to
explore aspects of their own sexuality; it’s practical role-playing.
The bulk of McRae’s article examines the attraction of virtual
sex. She finally pins it down to eroticism, in which regard I think
she’s correct. She also tries to ascertain why players find the
experience so intense, but is less successful there: She applies
three theories, none of which convince her (and none of which
convince me, either). Personally, I see it as a consequence of
immersion; then again, given my arguments earlier in this book,
I would, wouldn’t I? (Virtual sex Zen moment: What is the sound
of one hand typing?)
For some people, the attraction of virtual sex is pure hedonism.
You can emphasize features of your sexuality without fear, you
won’t catch any sexually transmitted diseases, and no one will
become pregnant as a result. This view of virtual sex was
popularized by Claire Benedikt in an up-beat, influential 1995
article180 on the subject. With virtual sex, you get all the
emotional pleasure and none of the dangers of real sex. If people
try to mess you around by emoting an event you don’t like, you
can quit, ignore them, or emote the inverse of the event just as
easily. If someone tears off your shirt, you can snap your fingers
and the shirt reappears; your virtual power is equal to that of
any abuser. Role-playing is consensual; actions are only
validated by the consent of all individuals concerned. If you
don’t want to play along, all they can do is to go look for
someone else who will.
Benedikt makes her point forcefully and with examples. Virtual
sex is (in an implementational sense) intangible; anything that
“happens” only happens if your mind accepts it or its
180 Claire Benedikt, Tinysex is Safe Sex. Infobahn, June 1995.
http://www.cwrl.utexas.edu/~claire/texts/thoughts.html.
726 Chapter 6
consequences as real. Investing words with emotion doesn’t
make them true; even if you feel violated, you haven’t been. If
someone is harassing you, speak to a wizard and they’ll punish
your tormentor. The only real threats are the ones that involve
real life, and for those you can call on the real police.
But if you can’t prevent or undo the virtual abuse? If there are
no administrators you can call on to stop it while it’s taking
place? If it’s witnessed by passers-by who think you’re a willing
participant?
Thus, we come to the most famous of all articles about virtual
worlds: Julian Dibbell’s A Rape in Cyberspace181. Oft-reprinted
not just because of its subject matter but also for the quality of
its writing, its main concern is not the incident of virtual rape to
which its title refers; rather it describes the way the community
of LambdaMOO, where the event took place, reacted.
Nevertheless, the virtual rape itself is a potent totem for gender
theorists; a reagent rather than a catalyst.
Warning: If you thought cross-gender play was controversial,
you’re almost guaranteed to be offended by some of the
discussion that follows.
Virtual sex was quite prevalent on LambdaMOO at the time of
the incident Dibbell reports, to the extent that he suggests that
it was in their first act of virtual sex that many newbies
experienced what would now be termed as immersion. There is
a difference, however, between virtual sex in private between
consenting players and that conducted in public against the will
of at least one of the participants. This is nevertheless precisely
181 Julian Dibbell, A Rape in Cyberspace: How an Evil Clown, a Haitian Trickster
Spirit, Two Wizards, and a Cast of Dozens Turned a Database Into a Society. The
Village Voice Vol. 38(51), December 1993.
http://www.juliandibbell.com/texts/bungle_vv.html.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 727
what one of the LambdaMOO players did. His character’s name
was Mr. Bungle.
Mr. Bungle used a virtual object called a voodoo doll to force
other characters to behave in ways that their players had not
instructed. He caused his victims to perform a number of
debased acts, all to the accompaniment of his maniacal laughter.
Because he had an audience in the form of the other players who
were in the room when his assault began, his victim’s logging
off would have made no difference—enough witnesses could see
what was going on. For the same reason, the victim’s gagging of
him would have had no effect182. Simply ignoring someone who
is controlling your character is not an option, either. Mr. Bungle
was only making intangible changes to the virtual world, but
was doing so using a device with tangible functionality such
that no one could prevent him. It wasn’t until a player called in
an experienced old-timer who had some kind of virtual stasis
gun at his disposal that the orgy of violence stopped.
Dibbell goes on to describe what happened afterward as the
community struggled to come to terms with the events. Most
players wanted Mr. Bungle expunged from the database (that is,
the character would cease to exist), but unfortunately none of
them had the power to do it. The administrators had handed
over LambdaMOO to its players some four months earlier, and
would only act on social issues when requested by the
community as a whole. Unfortunately, the players had not
formed a body to represent their views, so before they could get
Mr. Bungle removed they had to create one. They disagreed over
how to effect this, and in the end the wizards had to
implement/impose a voting system themselves.
182 Gagging had a dubious status on LambdaMOO anyway, on account of how
it empowers victims of abuse only at the price of making them responsible
for their own suffering when they don’t use it.
728 Chapter 6
Many interesting points are raised here. The first is that the
violation of a character was referred to almost universally as its
“rape.” Although this word can technically be used in a nonsexual context (“the rape of the country”), that’s not how it was
meant here: The players—those who experienced it and even
those who merely had it described to them second-hand—all
saw it as the non-consensual sexual desecration of an individual,
for which the word “rape” was entirely appropriate. This is not
to say that they felt it was the same as real-life rape, because
there was no physical side to what had happened. It was a rape
of a mind, but not of a body.
The community debated the possibility of responding to the
virtual crime in Reality. The player behind Mr. Bungle was a
student at a university with a strong antiharassment policy, and
it was conceivable that had its authorities been presented with
evidence of his actions (committed while using their computer)
they might have removed him from his course. The players
determined that a LambdaMOO crime best warranted a
LambdaMOO response, but that’s not to say that players of other
virtual worlds would necessarily feel the same way if something
similar happened there. Indeed, as we shall see shortly, there is
good reason to suppose that the crime was more real-world
than virtual world.
Also, the proposed punishment amounted to character death at
worst and permanent exile at best; in a social virtual world like
LambdaMOO, this is about the most drastic thing that can
happen to anyone. Heinous though rape is, it is second to
murder in seriousness. By ordering the death of the alleged
rapist, wouldn’t that mean the punishment was more severe
than the crime? And what purpose was the punishment to
serve—was it a warning to others, a step toward rehabilitation
or merely an act of revenge?
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 729
As a developer, I can only shake my head that this situation ever
arose. Non-admin players have a prevailing attitude that
anything the virtual world lets them do, they’re allowed to do.
The only exceptions they will countenance are those that
involve freeform input (for example, speech) that the
programmers can’t reasonably be expected to prevent. Over
time, they come to appreciate other rules of behavior that exist,
too, but the default is that if the world lets you do it, it’s allowed.
If it weren’t allowed, the programmers would just stop it, right?
Consequently, it came as no surprise to me at all to learn that a
virtual world in which players could control other players’
characters would, lo and behold, lead to a situation where one
player did exactly that. Why would they do it? In the Mr. Bungle
case, Dibbell suggests it was because the perpetrator was a
sociopath: He looked on the virtual world as a laboratory for
experimenting with other people’s emotions, a viewpoint that is
only perhaps excusable when held by total newbies.
A Rape in Cyberspace succeeded in drawing the attention of
researchers and journalists to virtual worlds (Dibbell himself is
a journalist), its ultimately positive spin doing much to help
people take virtual worlds seriously. Virtual sex was not
presented as a sordid activity undertaken by emotionally
crippled adolescent males; players were depicted as responsible
individuals genuinely shocked by the actions of a madman. The
critical differences between the real and the virtual were
thrown into relief.
Players are real, characters are virtual. Immersed players are
their characters—they’re personae—and therefore any assault
on a persona is an assault on the player. The assault can only be
emotional or intellectual, because those are the only aspects of
the real that can be affected by the virtual. A player who doesn’t
understand the difference between a character and a persona
(for example, someone who thinks “it’s just a game”) may assault
730 Chapter 6
other characters—and therefore players—without fully
realizing the consequences. A player who does know the
difference can perform an assault without censure if the context
of the virtual world reasonably permits it (for example, it’s clear
from the genre183 that characters can be raped). A player who
knows the difference and isn’t in a virtual world with a culture
that allows such assaults, yet who still goes ahead and does it
without provocation anyway, is indeed a sociopath184
.
As to whether these assaults violate real-world law, that’s a
matter for the lawyers. In a real world where people can be
successfully sued for inflicting emotional distress by failing to
deliver on a promise to meet Jesus Christ in the flesh185, who
knows what a gullible player might come to believe? Personally,
I feel that anyone who enters a virtual world takes a certain
emotional risk in doing so, and that they’ve no more right to sue
than has a member of the crowd at a golf match who is hit by a
stray ball. By the same token, though, any golfer who
deliberately or irresponsibly hit a ball at someone knowing it
would cause them physical damage could expect to be sued;
anyone in a virtual world who deliberately or irresponsibly
causes real-life emotional distress beyond that which a
reasonable individual could expect to endure in the context of
that world deserves all they get.
183 I’d still advise developers to make any such context explicit in a warning,
though, at least in the current climate of public opinion. People may
routinely expect characters to be killed in games, but even in a postapocalyptic, dark future world they might not expect they can be raped.
184 If they’re acting under the influence of personality-changing chemicals,
this may be only a temporary situation. Many players do things while drunk
that they later regret. However, if it was their decision to get drunk in the
first place, they still have to accept the consequences as being their
responsibility.
185 http://www.ananova.com/news/story/sm_508436.html
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 731
For those who think that freedom of speech rules would act as a
defense, consider a different incident of virtual rape reported by
Elizabeth Reid in her 1994 Cultural Formations thesis. This
occasion did not involve emote commands: Rather, the “rapist”
depicted the violations he186 was committing through use of the
“shout” command. The effect on the other players was actually
worse than in Dibbell’s example, because of the nature of the
virtual world in which it took place. JennyMUSH187 was set up to
help the victims of real-life sexual assault or abuse overcome
their trauma, and developed into a strong, supportive
community where people could talk through their problems
openly with others who had suffered similar violations.
Consequently, when the rogue player waited until there were no
administrators playing before changing gender to male, name
to Daddy, and then screaming graphical and violent messages of
virtual assault, it was calculated to cause maximum
psychological damage. If someone had used a public address
system at a psychiatric hospital to manifest the worst fears of
everyone attending a recovery group, they could expect to be
punished; the same should be said when people choose to
conduct similar real-life violence through actions undertaken in
virtual worlds. New prospective players of JennyMUSH now
have to be recommended by two other players and give their
real-life contact details to the system administrator before they
are admitted. They remain anonymous from the other players,
but can be called to account if they violate trust.
186 As the real-life gender of the character who did this is not certain, Reid
points out that actually “he” could have been a “she.”
187 This is not its real name. Reid changed it, for reasons that will become
apparent when you stop reading this footnote and get back to the main text.
732 Chapter 6
Simply the best discussion I have read about virtual rape is by
Richard MacKinnon188. He takes the view that the concept of
“rape” is a social construct that varies from culture to culture; in
plain English, what members of a society understand by “rape”
defines what rape is in that society. The LambdaMOO players
who witnessed Mr. Bungle’s actions or heard them described
almost universally viewed it as rape, therefore in that
community it was rape.
Virtual communities differ importantly from real-life ones,
however, in that their members don’t have bodies. The
wholesale importing of real-life concepts of rape into virtual
worlds is therefore a bad idea: Instead, players should
reconstruct the notion of rape within the context of the virtual
world. Furthermore, because there are theories of rape, this can
be done in a guided fashion—learning from real life, rather than
repeating its mistakes.
MacKinnon describes the main prevailing theories that explain
the causes of rape in real life. These are:
• Feminist. Rape is the result of deep-seated social
traditions dominated almost totally by men.
• Social learning. Aggressive sexual behavior is acquired
through repeated exposure to it.
• Evolutionary. Rape is a manifestation of the different
reproductive priorities of the sexes.
Whichever of these is used in the context of virtual worlds, it
must be broad; virtual worlds involve no body, therefore any
definition of rape that requires one is inapplicable. In this
188 Richard C. MacKinnon, The Social Construction of Rape in Virtual Reality.
Fay Sudweeks, Margaret McLaughlin and Sheizaf Rafaeli (editors), Network &
Netplay: Virtual Groups on the Internet. Cambridge MA, MIT Press, 1998.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 733
regard, some of the wider feminist viewpoints are most
appropriate, defining rape to be any “damage to the self”
inflicted by physical, emotional, psychological, or material
means. This being the case, rape (of the mind) is indeed possible
in virtual worlds. The question is, therefore, how to prevent it?
In considering his solution, MacKinnon notes that Mr. Bungle’s
actions were automatically accepted as events in the real world
by the observing players. Had Mr. Bungle used his voodoo doll
to make his victim appear to burst into flames, the players
would not have accepted this as a possibility and would have
mocked him for it. Putting this in terms I have used elsewhere
in this book, the players would have thought spontaneous
human combustion to be “unrealistic;” why, therefore, did they
not look on the virtual rape this way? MacKinnon’s answer is
that they were using a definition for rape taken from the real
world that didn’t fit; it would have been better were they to
create a new definition appropriate to their virtual world. Claire
Benedikt’s seemingly blasé suggestion of deflecting the
attacker’s weapon by deferring to the consensual nature of the
virtual world’s reality is actually the solution. Rather than
accepting rape to be an assault on the mind even when there is
no body, players should merely point out the obvious: You can’t
sexually assault someone when neither you nor they have a
body. The act of attempting to do so is ridiculous, and therefore
so is anyone making such an attempt.
MacKinnon accepts that during any period where new
definitions of rape are coming into acceptance there will be
problems, but the eventual reconstruction of the concept for
virtual worlds will be far more helpful in the long term. I’m not
convinced that it’s this simple: Immersion means that character
and player are, in a sense, one persona, so an assault on such a
character is an assault on a player. Unless they consented to it,
it really could be damage to their self that amounts to rape
734 Chapter 6
under this broad definition189. To respond as MacKinnon
suggests would mean unimmersing, but this could be
problematical for some players if they didn’t realize what was
happening in time.
MacKinnon makes another interesting point concerning Mr.
Bungle’s punishment. He is of the opinion that punishing a
character is no punishment at all unless the player has a stake in
that character. Mr. Bungle’s player didn’t care about the Mr.
Bungle character, therefore any sanctions imposed on him were
worthless. As Mr. Bungle’s player deliberately hurt his victim’s
player190, the offense was in real life, not in LambdaMOO.
Perhaps it would have been better if the LambdaMOO denizens
had asked for the offending player to suffer the consequences of
his actions in real life? I subscribe to this same view, while also
noting that deleting Mr. Bungle might nevertheless have served
some small purpose in serving as a deterrent for other players
contemplating similar rapes.
I also ought to state that personally I don’t feel that the
violations delivered by Mr. Bungle amounted to rape. They were
certainly cruel and certainly unpleasant, but to label this
189 This is the thrust of Jessica Mulligan’s opinion that PD amounts to rape,
and is why I inserted the “unless they consented to it” clause in there. If you
know that your self could be “damaged” in advance in a context that you
willingly enter, then should this happen it’s ultimately your responsibility
alone. Someone else may have been the instrument of the damage, but you
can’t call it rape; sure, you didn’t “ask for it,” but you did make the person
who gave you it unaccountable. If you step into a boxing ring, you expect to
get hit; if you step into a dark alley at night, you might also expect to get hit.
The difference is that in the former case you give your attacker implicit
permission to hit you, whereas in the latter you don’t.
190 Although the victim is usually referred to by character name, legba, the
identity of the player behind it is less well known. It was Shannon McRae,
whose Flesh Made Word article I discussed earlier.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 735
incident as an example of perhaps the second-worst191 crime a
person can commit in Reality tends, in my opinion, to trivialize
the latter rather than raise the former’s significance.
I mention all this for two reasons. Firstly, it’s the brief of this
chapter to report on what researchers in other fields think
about virtual worlds, and this is one of the areas in which there
is particularly constructive activity. Secondly, it raises a general
point concerning the responsibility of virtual world designers
for what goes on in their worlds. Consider the “rape” command
in a text-based virtual world.
Yes, you heard me.
Look, someone in your virtual world—probably a newbie, but it
could be a more experienced player—is going to try the
command “rape.” They can “kill Xyzzy” and get away with it,
murder is a greater crime than rape, and so it should be okay to
try “rape Xyzzy,” shouldn’t it? Or maybe they’re doing it in an
educational virtual world because, hey, their watching friends in
the real world will think they’re big. However they reason,
someone is eventually going to do it. You, as the virtual world’s
designer, have to decide how to respond.
Here are some typical solutions:
• Do nothing. The response to the command “rape” is the
same as would be generated by any other non-command.
This is the solution most designers take. They do so either
because they didn’t consider rape to be an issue, or they did
but it was too hard so they ducked it, or they have some
191 In addition to murder, physical maiming could be regarded as more
serious than rape, given that the threat of it is often used successfully by
rapists to prevent their victims from attempting to escape. If being raped
were the worse fate, this strategy wouldn’t work.
736 Chapter 6
rationale along the lines of “I won’t dignify it with a
response.” None of these are acceptable. It is important, it
shouldn’t be avoided, and you are giving it a response
(specifically, that you don’t mind having in your world
people who think rape is okay).
• Issue a response telling the player off. This has the
advantage of showing that you don’t approve of this kind of
behavior, but the disadvantage of being toothless. The
would-be rapist can simply laugh it off.
• Issue a warning, and also alert the customer service staff. A
20-minute lecture by an unamused admin undertaken in a
disconnected sin bin room is enough to persuade most of the
“I just wanted to see what would happen” brigade that no,
actually, you didn’t. This works, but administrators don’t like
doing it, especially if they end up being hated for “not being
able to take a joke” as a result. It also runs the risk that
people will try it simply to gain attention.
• Give the warning tangible force. Don’t just say you think
that this is inappropriate for your virtual world, but
(temporarily) damage any character that tries it. Now they
know you’re serious.
• Give the command tangible meaning. They want to assault
another character, okay, so invoke whatever combat
routines the virtual world uses. Couple it with one of the
preceding responses (it works particularly well with an
automatic hit point loss). Hey, if you attack someone while
your pants are round your ankles, you’re bound to be at a
disadvantage….
• Mete out instant PD on any character that issues the
command. If the player wants it back, they can come cap in
hand to the administrators and beg. Only after a suitable
display of contrition will their character be resurrected. This
zero-tolerance approach makes its point, but can be overkill.
Furthermore, experienced players will persuade naïve
newbies to try the command, then laugh their socks off at
the result. The newly dead newbie, however, will suffer all
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 737
the usual effects of PD and may be hurt as a result. Their
punishment is beyond their crime.
• Do any of the above, and warn the intended victim. They can
then take action to avoid the odious individual concerned in
future. This sounds a good idea, but in practice it isn’t; it can
be highly disturbing if, during the course of normal play, you
suddenly receive a message telling you that your character
has just successfully resisted an attempted rape by some
other character. There is a strong possibility that a player
would eventually exploit such a rape command solely to hurt
their victim—even if it meant they’d eventually lose their
own character as a result.
I’ve had numerous debates192 on this subject over the years
concerning MUD2’s approach to the command, and have tried
various different solutions. The one I have settled on is “tangible
meaning,” without informing the intended victim that the
attack came from a “rape” command. This means that the
perpetrator suffers the consequences of their action, but they’re
the only person who does. On the whole, people prefer not to see
the word “rape” coming from their virtual world, even if this is
at the expense of not being informed when someone tries it193
.
192 For one that took place in 1990/91 in the pages of the newsletter of the
short-lived Organisation Against Sexism in Software, see:
http://www.mud.co.uk/richard/oadec90.htm
http://www.mud.co.uk/richard/oafeb91a.htm
http://www.mud.co.uk/richard/oafeb91b.htm
193 When players implement events by play-acting them (as happens in those
virtual worlds that enforce role-playing), out-of-character communication
can have this same effect. This can be doubly disconcerting, because the
consensual nature of such role-playing means that not only might players
ask OOC if their character can rape your character, but they also might ask if
your character can rape theirs. Indeed, anecdotal evidence seems to suggest
that more people want to play out being the victim of rape than want to play
out being the perpetrator. Karrin Dailey, The Dreaded “R” Word. Skotos, 2003.
http://www.skotos.net/articles/ medium11.shtml.
738 Chapter 6
Returning at last from the fringes of Gender Studies back to the
mainstream, how can attitudes to virtual sex (and virtual rape)
best be summed up? As with cross-gender play, there are
basically two points of view:
• The radical view is that virtual sex victimizes women.
There is a continuum of harassment, with virtual rape at
the end-point.
• The liberal view is that virtual sex liberates women. Sex
can be as frequent and different as you want, and is often
better than in real life.
Neither of these is satisfactory, as Nicola Döring points out in
her excellent critique194. Victimization sees women as always
having the status of objects, and does not admit the possibility
that virtual sexual experiences can exist and be enjoyed;
liberalization idealizes women’s choice and control, and does
not admit the possibility that there may be a power imbalance
between the genders. Döring proposes a third, empowerment
model that addresses the concerns of the other two. Central to
this is the notion that sexual empowerment is an individual
learning process, as well as a process of political emancipation.
Women should question their needs, and explore them critically;
in other words, through their actions in the virtual world, they
should develop a better understanding of themselves.
Yes, that does sound strangely familiar. Isn’t it nice when all
these theories come together?
194 Nicola Döring, Feminist Views of Cybersex: Victimization, Liberation, and
Empowerment. CyberPsychology and Behavior Vol. 3 (5), 2000.
http://www.nicola-doering.de/publications/cybersex-doering-2000.pdf.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 739
Back in Chapter 4,“World Design,” I referred to J. C. Herz’s 1994
zeitgeist-capturing book, Surfing on the Internet. Her experiences
with virtual worlds cover several chapters, as she moves from
newbie to seasoned veteran195. When she begins, she has
experience of IRC but not much idea of what’s possible in a
virtual world. She starts with a look at the education-oriented
MicroMUSE196, then moves on to the more socially oriented
LambdaMOO. There, she meets a character called Thorin who
gives her a tour of the place.
Herz leaves LambdaMOO and explores many other virtual
worlds over the coming weeks, playing several quite
extensively. Finally, she returns to LambdaMOO no longer a
newbie, and seeks out the friendly Thorin. At first he doesn’t
recall her, having showed around many guests in his time, but
when she jogs his memory he remembers. He then furthers her
education by demonstrating how to create her own virtual
space within LambdaMOO. Then he hits on her.
As a guest, Herz was an “it.” Now she is experienced and has
created her own character, she’s a “her.” When Thorin helped
her as a guest, he didn’t know she was female (although he
suspected it). Now she’s confirmed her real-life gender and
accepted his further help, he thinks she’s obligated to him.
Well yes, maybe she is, but she’s not obligated that much. When
she turns down his advances, Thorin’s mood changes
drastically. He subjects her to a torrent of power-trip emotes,
describing the mean things his character is doing to hers and
how her character is reacting. Herz subverts this in exactly the
manner described by Benedikt, undoing his every virtual act
195 You can read the book as an example of a hero’s journey if you’re
exceptionally keen.
196 She calls it Cyberion City, which is the name of the main region in the
MicroMUSE world. http://www.musenet.org/.
740 Chapter 6
with an emote that returns to the status quo, all the while
pointing out his foolishness with smiles and laughter. She ends
with the comment, “Ooh. MUD harassment. Think I’ll have to
see a shrink about this. Not.”
Now that’s the attitude.
Lexicography
After so many pages of dense theorizing concerning nighinaccessible ideological positions using elitist vocabulary, I
thought I’d go on to something a little less stressful next:
lexicography—the compilation of dictionaries.
Lexicography is one small part of lexicology (the study of the
structure and history of a particular language), which itself falls
under the scientific umbrella of linguistics. We’ve already met
sociolinguistics in the context of anthropology; other major
subfields include phonetics, syntax, semantics, and translation,
none of which touch on virtual worlds very much (which isn’t to
say that they shouldn’t). Three other subfields of linguistics do
have something to say about virtual worlds, however: cognitive
science and computational linguistics (which I file with artificial
intelligence), and language acquisition (which comes under
education). This leaves lexicography, with a dash of lexicology as
a context.
Virtual worlds are great for learning foreign languages. They’re
great for learning your mother tongue, come to that. They’re
also great for the development of new terms. This is why
lexicographers are interested in them.
There are two opposing stances on the purpose of dictionaries.
One, the prescriptive view, is that dictionaries tell you what
words actually mean, as opposed to what certain individuals
might think they mean. By ensuring that everyone uses the
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 741
same words in the same way, clarity is maintained and the
subtle interrelationships between words are upheld. The
contrary, descriptive view, is that dictionaries are for recording
words as they are used, its not being the business of the
lexicographer to make judgments about the “correctness” of
usage.
As an example, a prescriptive dictionary will tell you that the
word “enormity” means “extreme wickedness” (as in “when the
enormity of his murderous deeds sank in”), whereas a
descriptive dictionary will add that it means “huge scale” (as in
“when the enormity of her tennis victory sank in”). Initially, as
they struggled to formalize spellings and dialect terms,
dictionaries were prescriptive. There were even “dictionary
wars,” in which rival lexicographers vied to have their version
accepted as definitive— sometimes for very political reasons197
.
Nowadays, though, dictionaries are mainly descriptive. They do
give the “correct” meaning of a word, but report it as “archaic” if
it is; upstart new meanings come in as “informal.” Pedants may
lament the passing of prescriptive dictionaries, but languages
do change. The word “enormous” meant “extremely wicked”
back in the 1500s.
So, how do modern dictionaries define virtual worlds? Basically,
they don’t. This is not surprising for two reasons:
• Players disagree over what virtual worlds are called (which
is why I began this book by defining the terms I’d be using).
• Virtual worlds are an online phenomenon that
lexicographers don’t necessarily know exists.
197 This is why I had to install an American English spell-checker into my
word processor for this book, rather than stay with the British English one I
normally use.
742 Chapter 6
There are many hundreds of dictionaries around, of course, and
some undoubtedly do have references to virtual world terms if
not virtual worlds themselves. I’m certain that the mighty
Oxford English Dictionary198 does, because one of their
lexicographers phoned me to ask me where the acronym “MUD”
first appeared in print199. In general, though, definitions have
been limited to specialist lexicographies. The first time I saw
“MUD” was in a 1991 dictionary of personal computing200, which
referred only to MUD1 and not MUDs in general; it did, however,
have a definition of MUG as an abbreviation for “multiuser
game” (although apart from directing the reader to the
definition for MUD, that was the sum of it).
Doubtless this situation will change as lexicographers latch on
to the fact that virtual worlds are played by more people than
read their dictionaries, and are therefore worthy of
consideration. If they do, they may be tempted not only to define
concepts such as “virtual world,” “avatar,” and “permanent
death,” but also to look at the words that players use in everyday
communication.
This is where, finally, it gets interesting.
Players of virtual worlds often develop new words (or, as with
“avatar,” new meanings for old words) to label things that they
find important. The same applies for any subculture, of course;
indeed, one of the signifiers of a subculture is the development
198 John Simpson (chief editor), Oxford English Dictionary. Oxford, Oxford
University Press. Updated quarterly.
http://www.oed.com/.
199 Answer: Richard Bartle, A Voice from the Dungeon. Practical Computing,
December 1983. http://www.mud.co.uk/richard/avftd.htm.
200 Ian R. Sinclair, Collins Dictionary of Personal Computing. Glasgow,
HarperCollins, 1991.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 743
of its own jargon. Knowledge of jargon terms can be used to
erect barriers between a subculture and its mainstream culture;
if someone doesn’t know what a term means, or misapplies it,
that flags them as an outsider. Academics, for example, will
frequently drop the names of other academics in conversation
to sum up viewpoints or ideals in a single word; this isn’t
deliberately to be exclusive, but if you don’t know the work to
which they’re referring then it can have that effect. For example,
if I were talking to someone I believed was an expert on identity
issues in virtual worlds, I might in the course of the
conversation refer to Sherry Turkle’s work expecting them to
know what I meant; if they replied “Sherry who?,” I’d maybe
wonder if they were indeed the expert they professed to be.
The use of jargon terms can define membership of a community.
This can go two ways:
• The community excludes people who don’t use its jargon.
• The community includes people who learn its jargon.
For virtual worlds, we want the second of these: Newbies arrive,
they don’t understand many of the terms, but in being taught
them by members of the community they feel they are being
accepted into the community (which is true—they are). It’s
therefore in the interests of virtual world developers to ensure
that there is a certain amount of jargon in their worlds, to help
act as community glue.
For example, newbies to worlds like EverQuest will hear people
referring to “mobs.” In the real world, the word “mob” means a
large, unruly crowd; in virtual worlds, a “mob” is a computercontrolled monster. When players learn what a “mob” is, it
draws them one step further into the community.
Some virtual world jargon comes from related subcultures.
“Rooms” get their name because that’s what people called them
744 Chapter 6
in adventure games such as Zork. A good many words hail from
the general computer hacker subculture, the jargon of which is
maintained as the Jargon File201 (published in book form as The
New Hacker’s Dictionary202). This work not only defines many
commonly used words and phrases, but it is packed with
interesting background notes and information; in places, it
almost amounts to an historical record, rather than a mere
noting of usage.
There are two comparatively large203 dictionaries of terms that
are used by players of virtual worlds. One of these, the
Encyclopedia of MUDs Dictionary204, covers textual virtual worlds
in general; the other, the MUDspeke Dictionary205, collates only
those terms that have found favor in MUD2. There is some
overlap between these, partly because of their common heritage
and partly because of external factors. Some terms are more
exportable than others, and are therefore more inclusive or
exclusive.
Looking at the various terms that have found favor in virtual
worlds, they can be classified along their lines of general utility
as follows:
• Those exported into mainstream culture. “Wtf” (what the
f**k?) has appeared in mainstream U.K. newspapers and
magazines, as has “bot” (an intelligent conversational
agent). Both began in virtual worlds.
• Those exported into a wider subculture. IRC users use
“afk” (“away from keyboard”), “brb” (“be right back”) and
201 http://www.tuxedo.org/~esr/jargon/jargon.html
202 Eric Raymond (editor), The New Hacker’s Dictionary. Cambridge MA, MIT
Press, 1991.
203 They each have more than 500 entries in them.
204 http://www.iowa-mug.net/muddic/dic/academic.html
205 http://www.mud.co.uk/muse/muse/speke.htm
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 745
“bbl” (“be back later”) because players of virtual worlds
did (not that many IRC users know this).
• Those exported into other virtual worlds. “Rehi” (“hello
again”), “mobile,” and “rl” (“real life”) are endemic across
virtual worlds, but began in MUD1.
• Those not exportable to other virtual worlds. MUD2
players know who “the twins” are, but players of other
virtual worlds wouldn’t because they don’t contain the
objects to which the term refers.
• Those not exportable to the same virtual world at a
different time in its history. Terms that mention
characters by name are particularly prone to lose
resonance over time. Others, however, inexplicably cling
on. MUD2 players will say they “fetched” when their
modem chokes on them, solely because a long-deceased
specialist piece of client software that one incarnation of
the world used would display the unhelpful message
“fetch error” when this happened.
• Those that look exported but were probably reinvented
independently. Mobile phone users don’t key in “b4”
(“before”) or “thx” (“thanks”) because virtual world
players did; they do it because it takes less time (which is
precisely why virtual world players did it).
• Those that were exported but were reinventions in
virtual worlds. People today use the word “newbie”
because MUD1 players invented it, however unbeknown
to those players they were merely reinventing a word
that had been used in select British fee-paying schools
for years.
As I noted in Chapter 3, from a game designer’s point of view a
certain amount of jargon is a good thing. Too much can act as a
barrier to newbies, of course, but too little can weaken a
community’s hold on its members. Although I don’t recommend
the out-and-out inventing of terms for the players to use, there’s
no harm in ensuring that any idiosyncratic vocabulary that has
746 Chapter 6
arisen to fill a need during development of the game is passed
on. Players use words like “shard” and “zone” because that’s
what the designers and programmers called them. Members of
the live team can, by frequently using a term (especially one
invented by the players), make that term “official”—thereby
greatly increasing its acceptability. Understanding any new
term adds to a player’s stake in a virtual world. Jargon is your
friend: Treat it well.
In her analysis206 of the use of jargon in virtual worlds, Diane
Shortt suggests that as more and more people play these
worlds, specialist terms will seep more and more into the
mainstream—just as hippie terms from the 1960s are now part
of everyday speech. She sees this as an inevitable consequence
of the increasing popularity of virtual worlds, but notes that
players do express regret that “their” language is becoming less
“theirs.”
Whether this seepage is a good thing or a bad thing, I’m not
sure. On the face of it, it looks like it should be bad because
jargon makes for community. However, if there are so many
people playing these virtual worlds that their terminology has
become mainstream, why worry?
A final note: As the “fetch” example illustrated, words can
preserve history. For some virtual worlds, this may indeed be
the only way that their history is preserved. Historians have yet
to show any interest in virtual worlds at all—there’s no History
section in this chapter—and yet some of these worlds have the
potential to last almost indefinitely207. When culture is only
206 http://www.mala.bc.ca/~soules/CMC290/hackslay.htm
207 Specialist archivists in related fields do make occasional note of virtual
worlds in an historical context, but only peripherally (because their main
interests lie elsewhere). For example, MUD1 (as MUD) gets a one-sentence
mention (out of 1,370 pages) under “Games and Toys” in John Clute and Peter
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 747
maintained by word –of mouth, the words in those mouths are
important. Dictionaries can be the gatekeepers of history; would
your virtual world benefit from one?
Economics
Virtual worlds (the more persistent ones, anyway) have
economies. Economists study economies. Virtual-world
economies are therefore legitimate objects of study for
economists.
This doesn’t mean that many economists do study virtual
worlds, however. Those who are involved in the area are more
often than not players of virtual worlds who happen to be
economists in real life, rather than economists coming to virtual
worlds from the outside. That said, academic economists are
becoming increasingly aware of virtual worlds, and we can
expect more of them to become interested in the topic as time
goes on.
I said “the topic” there, but there are actually three main areas
of importance:
• Using virtual worlds to simulate a real-world economy for
experimental purposes.
• Figuring out how the in-world economies of virtual worlds
work (or fail to work).
• Examining the interaction between virtual-world economies
and the real-world economy.
The first of these is not perhaps as widespread as might be
expected. I have only one paper in my collection that addresses
Nicholls (editors), The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction (2nd edition). London,
Orbit, 1993.
748 Chapter 6
it, by Thomas Grimm and Johann Mitlöhner208. Their approach
was to take a regular textual world and add commands specific
to performing monetary transactions. The first of these, “deal,”
proposed a contract between two individuals (the buyer and the
seller), concerning one object. Negotiation could then follow,
using an “offer” command to change the terms of the proposed
contract (price, quantity, delivery date, and so on), plus “accept”
and “withdraw” commands to terminate the deal one way or the
other. The system (that is, the virtual world engine) would then
either execute or delete the contract, as appropriate. None of the
contract commands accrued any cost in themselves (it was a
lawyer-free environment).
Grimm and Mitlöhner’s purpose was to create artificial agents
that exhibited different “lifelike” behaviors, and see just how
well these worked in practice in an environment shared with
each other and with real people. They were using a virtual world
to simulate theories that are hard to test in the real one.
Economic modeling by computer is not a new idea, of course;
virtual worlds offer the additional presence of humans, which
makes the model they present more plausible209
.
The problem is, virtual world economies don’t seem to work the
same way as the real one. When they’re constructed to work like
the real world works, they don’t. Money quickly becomes either
worthless or (less often) impossible to acquire; yet trade still
happens. This is fascinating stuff, made all the more interesting
because although it’s not too hard to see why the design for a
particular virtual-world economy might fail, it’s much harder to
come up with a design for one that wouldn’t.
208 Thomas Grimm and Johann Mitlöhner, Developing a Virtual Reality for the
Simulation of Agent Based Economic Models. Departments of Applied
Economics and Applied Computer Science, Vienna University of Economics
and Business Administration, 1995.
209 Most importantly in providing a solid basis for the concept of “demand.”
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 749
It should be noted that there are several different types of
economy available in virtual worlds. Some, such as TinyMUD’s
tokens, are little more than permissions to interact with the
virtual world: They limit the amount of building that can be
done, but there’s not a lot else for which they can be used. The
designers of the early graphical world Habitat characterized this
as a “socialist economy”210, based as it was on the equitable
distribution of limited real-world computer resources. Their
own solution (which was, almost inevitably, inflationary)
involved having in-world money that could be spent on in-world
goods; again, though, it was still basically one-on-one between
character and database—a point well made in a 1995 talk211 to
economists by Julian Dibbell. Economies only really get going
when players trade between each other, so as to obtain things
on which they place different values. This brings us to the
second topic of interest to economists: the internal economics
of virtual worlds.
The first report on the economics of an individual world
remains the archetype: Zachary Booth Simpson’s The In-game
Economics of Ultima Online212. This seminal work describes the
similarities and differences between Ultima Online’s economy
and real-world economies, the thought that went into its design,
and the places where the expectation did not match the
eventuality.
210 F. Randall Farmer, Chip Morningstar and Douglas Crockford, From Habitat
to Global Cyberspace.
http://ftp.game.org/pub/mud/text/research/hab2cybr.txt.
211 Julian Dibbell, MUD Money: A Talk on Virtual Value and, Incidentally, the
Value of the Virtual. Rutgers University, Proceedings Stages of the Virtual,
April 1995. http://www.juliandibbell.com/texts/mudmoney.html.
212 Zachary Booth Simpson, The In-game Economics of Ultima Online. Origin
Systems Inc., 1999.
http://www.kanga.nu/mirrors/www.totempole.net/uoecon/uoecon.html.
750 Chapter 6
There were five reasons that the designers of UO wanted their
world to have an economy, universal across all large-scale
virtual worlds:
• To ration power, so that not everyone can have every
piece of desirable kit.
• To support specialization (and therefore diversity), so
that players concentrate on finding their own individual
niche because of the limits on what they can own.
• To encourage interaction, for trade and work.
• To provide goals.
• To support economic role-playing, for people who like to
be artisans, merchants, and so on.
These were the aims. Simpson identified the following areas
where the designers had to make unconventional213 decisions
because of UO’s virtual nature:
• Balancing fun and realism. The real world’s way of doing
it may not be fun.
• What to do with characters when players log off.
• How to handle muling by players with more than one
character.
• Hoarding of objects by players creates database load and
must be discouraged.
• Newbies need to be given help so they can advance
quickly, but this must not be exploitable by experienced
players through their mules.
• What to do when bugs allow people to cheat.
The original solution to all these criteria was a closed economy
where resources, money, raw materials, goods, and character
213 Unconventional with respect to real-world economies.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 751
inventory were all interlinked through player and system
actions to create a single economic flow. Within a year of
launch, it had switched to faucet/drain. Why was this?
Simpson argues that it was a failure of the original design to
consider microeconomic aspects of the world, concentrating as
it did on the macro economy. There was severe over-production
of goods, because players created many items solely so that
their creation skills would rise. This led to a fall in prices that
players were not willing to accept. If a player makes a ton of
identical shirts and takes them to some NPC vend or that
already has a ton of these shirts and has been unable to sell
them, the player should expect that the vendor refuses to buy
any more; unfortunately, the player instead regards it as a
bug—the virtual world encouraged them to create clothes, so it
ought to obey its obligations and buy them.
A second problem was that the NPC shopkeeper economy didn’t
work. NPC shopkeepers set their prices using a hugely
complicated formula based on many different factors. The
problem was, players wanted to sell things to NPC vendors but
didn’t want to buy anything from them. This meant that
vendors operating to a positive cash flow paradigm would cease
buying when they ran out of money. Those objects they sold
that players could not get elsewhere were subject to a pricing
scheme that groups of players could combine to exploit once
they figured it out (which of course they did— buying low in
one place then teleporting to where they could sell high, for
example).
A third problem was hoarding. In a closed economy where the
number of resources is constant, new resources are only added
to the system when old resources are expended. For example, if
a sword breaks, then the metal it is made up of is returned to
the resource pool and a miner somewhere will dig up some ore
that replaces it. This keeps down inflation (which is its
752 Chapter 6
intention), but unfortunately it means that whenever people
hold on to objects, rather than using them, there is a resource
shortage. Scarcity then encourages players to hold onto the
resource even more (because who knows when they may next
find some?). The solution of increasing the pool didn’t work—
people kept on hoarding and resources kept on drying up. Only
by switching to a faucet (constant input of resources,
irrespective of use) did that problem go away, but at the expense
of server load (because people still hoarded objects they couldn’t
or wouldn’t sell). The faucet needed sufficient drains to match it,
but these weren’t present. Had these been there at the start,
people would have accepted them; because they weren’t,
though, players regarded attempts to impose new drains (for
example, taxes) as taking things away from them, which was
deeply unpopular.
The final reason that the UO economy failed was because of
counterfeiting. Loopholes existed that enabled players to clone
money, and because of this, they could create as much as they
liked until the programmers could fix the bug. This took much
longer to tackle than it should have.
Simpson finishes his report with some suggestions as to how
future virtual worlds might be able to address these issues,
while noting that actually the failure of UO’s economy was not
as bad as it would have been for a real-world economy—players
still had fun. I won’t list all his conclusions here, because there
are too many of them; besides, if you’re at all interested in any of
this, you would do better to read the original report. I’ll list his
most important recommendations, however, for comparison
with what other people propose:
• Create enforceable contracts. If people agree to pay for
work, or to perform work for pay, then neither should be
able to rip off the other without serious consequences.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 753
• Create auctions. These define price very efficiently, and
are fun social events.
• Allow player-controlled vendors to buy as well as sell.
• Deepen production paths. If there are transitional steps
to producing goods, newbies can have an apprenticelike
intermediate role to play in production instead of
creating finished goods themselves.
• Make characters purchase skill improvements, rather
than improve them through use.
As a result of Simpson’s paper, later large-scale virtual worlds
have invariably gone for an open model rather than a closed one.
However, that isn’t to say that a closed one can never work.
Although in Chapter 4 I suggested that no one has yet created a
successful closed model economy for virtual worlds, that’s
actually only true for the big, graphical worlds. In smaller-scale
worlds, with fewer player management issues, a closed economy
can be implemented and run successfully. Geoff Wong
describes214 how by adhering to a strict monetarist Loans
Standard policy, the designers of Shattered World215 have created
an economy in which prices have remained relatively stable
since the early 1990s. The key to this is ensuring that all
manufacturers, shops, and banks in the world are owned by PCs,
rather than by NPCs. Players specify the prices for absolutely
everything—nothing is set by the system itself except the
amount of money that the individual banks can loan.
The success of the Scattered World economic system is
evidenced by its stable prices. It does have periods of boom and
bust (related to changes in the size of the player base), but has
never suffered the kind of collapse that befell UO. Its main
214 Geoff Wong, A Working Mud Economy. Imaginary Realities Vol. 3 (5), May
2000.
215 http://www.shattered.org
754 Chapter 6
problem is that to keep the money supply under control,
newbies can’t be given a grubstake when they enter—they have
either to persuade a banker to loan them the money or perform
menial tasks for other players who don’t want to do the tasks
themselves. Only when a newbie has demonstrated that they’re
likely to become a regular player will bankers deign to lend
them any money. This is fine for a small-scale virtual world, but
it’s easy to see how one with thousands of newbies couldn’t
expect to keep them for long.
There are other problems, too. In a comparison216 of open and
closed virtual-world economies, Dan Hastings notes the
following difficulties:
• There is a huge amount of work involved in tracking the
creation and destruction of economically significant
items. Pretty well everything must be audited so as to
ensure that the overall money supply remains under
control. This can lead to very serious overheads in
implementation217
.
• Virtual worlds where not all characters are PCs must
simulate the behavior of their implied NPCs. The virtual
world must somehow attempt to model the fact that PCs
are “really” only a small fraction of the total population,
even though they drive its economy. This is very hard to
get right for a closed economy.
• Closed economies remove some of the designer’s
freedom. If you create a city with a “poor” area, under a
closed economy it’s very difficult to prevent this from
216 Dan Hastings (“Scatter”), The Model Economy. Imaginary Realities Vol. 2 (9),
September 1999.
http://home.clara.net/stormbringer/mudos/economy.html.
217 This is something you’d probably want to do anyway, though, so customer
service staff can discover where reportedly “lost” items and money have
gone.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 755
becoming a “rich” area if players decide to make it such.
This means any premade quests or whatever that
assume it’s a poor area will become out of date.
Deliberate, artistic placement of economic entities is also
hard to sustain.
It may be possible to combine the best of open and closed
systems by maintaining a fixed pool of total wealth and using
taxation as a mechanism for managing it. This is the approach
that has been taken by Star Wars Galaxies, for which excellent
documents218 exist describing the virtual world’s economy itself
and the rationale behind its creation. It features a central bank,
to control and monitor the cash flow into and out of the virtual
economy, ensuring that the amount provided by the faucet is
the same as that recovered by taxation. The plan is to keep
taxation219 constant and vary the incoming wealth (amortized
across all distribution mechanisms) to match it; this avoids the
tax-level changes that players so hate. There is some leeway in
the system, in that calculations are performed weekly rather
than continually; these calculations also account for net
increases in the number of players joining the virtual world
since they were last run. The hope is that this economy will:
• Discourage hoarding, because objects decay.
• Increase immediate spending, because money devalues
quicker than goods.
• Create equal opportunities, because newbies don’t have to
play catch-up with players who have been around for
months.
218 Py Rathedan, A Real Player Economy. Stratics, May 2001.
http://swg.stratics.com/content/feature/editorials/editorial051501.shtml. Gil
Breau, Online World Economy. May 2002. http://swg-de.emr.net/a29.php.
219 In this context, I’m including object decay and other ways that wealth is
effectively returned to the bank as different mechanisms of taxation.
756 Chapter 6
In general, as long as a taxation system is imposed from the
beginning, the players will accept it; they would not feel that
anything was being taken from them as a punishment for their
collective success. Personally, I believe that this is probably the
right way to go in the long term, but of course it greatly
depends on its actual implementation; it may have unforeseen
consequences on gameplay. Nevertheless, having taxation as a
weapon right from the start should make solving most of the
unexpected problems that do arise a great deal easier.
Part of the issue with virtual-world economies is that they
touch on so many aspects of design. Certain things have to be in
place for the economy to function, and some of these are
directly at odds with what would otherwise be preferred for
gameplay reasons. For example, if there’s a severe recession in
the real world, then there’s not a lot you can do about it; in a
virtual world, you instead can go play some other world where
there isn’t a recession. Periodic recessions may be required to
cool down overheated economies, but they’re no fun for the
players caught up in them.
This is particularly problematical for players who enjoy the
economic side of virtual life. Primarily, this means gatherers
and crafters rather than traders (although it will mean traders
too in any world where people can’t teleport about at will,
buying stuff at source). In a celebrated attack on the hack-andslay disposition of many virtual world designers, Sie Ming wrote
an article220—I Want to Bake Bread221—pointing out some of the
things that gatherers/crafters liked to do that weren’t being
addressed by existing virtual worlds. This was followed up a few
220 Sie Ming, I Want to Bake Bread. Stratics, December 2000.
http://www.stratics.com/content/ editorials/articles/bread.shtml.
221 A dig at Shadowbane’s “We don’t play games to bake bread, we play them
to crush!”
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 757
months later by a second article222—I Want to Forge Swords—
describing mechanisms by which designers might tackle these
issues. It’s essentially an argument for an integrated economy,
whereby there is a symbiotic relationship between those who
create objects and those who consume them (that is, supply and
demand). Although some of the suggestions are too specialized
for many virtual worlds223, most are eminently sensible and
should not be difficult to incorporate to some degree in any
reasonably open-ended new design. That the sentiments the
articles express have not become widespread is due mainly to
three main factors: A lack of understanding by well-meaning
designers who want to be nice to crafters, but somehow just
can’t get “it’s all about combat” ideas out of their heads—
designers who subscribe to the overall sentiments, but lack the
time and budget to do them justice; designers who perfectly
understand the issues, but are creating a virtual world that
really isn’t about crafting.
Crafting is an area where virtual-world economic activity
doesn’t match the real-world version it hopes to model. Realworld economies can grow through extension of
manufacturing, improved production methods, and better
distribution. In virtual worlds, all these have to be programmed
in and are therefore inviolate. In the real world, I can figure out
a new way to make toothbrushes that takes less time or creates
better toothbrushes; in a virtual world, I can only do this if the
designers have anticipated me.
So far, I’ve described how those players of virtual worlds who
have an interest in the subject have undertaken economics
research concerning virtual worlds. There are, however,
222 Sie Ming, I Want to Forge Swords. Stratics, May 2001.
http://www.stratics.com/content/ editorials/articles/swords.shtml.
223 Conversely, some virtual worlds (such as A Tale in the Desert) really take
them to heart.
758 Chapter 6
economists who come to virtual worlds as economists rather
than as players. Their starting point is almost invariably the
economic set-up of the real world, in which light they look at the
economies of virtual worlds.
This isn’t a bad way to go about things, as long as you realize
that there are differences between real-world and virtual-world
economies. Although virtual worlds strive for realism when this
helps immersion, nevertheless there are situations where the
virtual cannot work the same as the real. Given that economies
touch on so many aspects of virtual worlds, it would be
surprising if they weren’t affected by some of these.
In an underrated introduction224 to the topic, John Beezer sets
about assessing the differences between real-world and virtualworld economies. He lists the conditions that must be satisfied
in order to create a virtual economy recognizably close enough
to a real (mercantile) economy that it could be studied as such.
The conditions are categorized under three headings:
• Technical. To do with the hardware and software.
• Natural. Facts of real life, which are so fundamental to
real-world economies that they must be transferred to
virtual worlds.
• Cultural. Related to the way that people interact within
the virtual world.
Of these, the most interesting ones are the natural ones. Beezer
makes some very uncomfortable points here. For example, a
major economic motivator in real life is fear of dying. Indeed, an
“economic good” can be legitimately defined as “any product or
service that prolongs or protects life”—it’s that fundamental.
224 John Beezer, Virtual Currencies and Virtual Worlds. 1996.
http://adhostnt.adhost.com/beezer/resume/virtec.doc.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 759
Death must be permanent, and also sufficiently unpleasant that
players will take it seriously225. Characters must be able to kill
one another, so that those characters with economic power can
be prevented from abusing it (by armed insurrection). Virtual
worlds without permanent death are therefore not going to
work like the real world, right from the start.
Similarly, a lot of real-world economic activity is concerned with
the provision of food and shelter. People need to eat a range of
foods, too, not just a certain number of calories worth. Virtual
worlds where the necessities aren’t necessary will also not work
like the real world.
Thirdly, the way the real world’s economy works is moderated
by transaction costs. Resources are not spread out evenly: Some
crops grow better in one place than they do elsewhere; some
minerals occur in one type of rock but not another; some
animals prefer a particular climate. The further away you are
from where something is produced, the more it costs to get it.
Teleporting should therefore require effort, and teleporting lots
of things should be proportionately harder than teleporting just
a few of them. Virtual worlds with instant teleportation in them
also aren’t going to have an economy like the real world’s.
Beezer’s points are all attainable: You could create a virtual
world economy as he describes, and it would indeed work like
the real one226. The thing is, most virtual worlds do not adhere
to these principles, and therefore their economies are not going
to make sense if designed along real-world lines. The reason
225 Beezer suggests that one way of doing this would be to make players put
down a deposit in real money that is lost when their character dies.
226 Beezer’s aim was to get a close enough match that the economic variables
of the virtual world could be altered experimentally, and the results used to
draw conclusions about what would happen if the same were done in the real
world.
760 Chapter 6
they don’t adhere to the principles is because if they did then
their players would migrate to some other virtual world where
“life” was easier—ironically, this is basically an economic
argument.
The problem thus becomes one of creating a virtual world
economy that looks to the players like a real economy but that
behind the scenes is not. To this end, some of the ways in which
virtual worlds differ from the real one can be used to their
advantage. In the real world, for example, central banks aim to
keep the money supply in equilibrium with the supply of goods;
they do this by tweaking interest rates and by printing
banknotes. The virtual world There.com, on the other hand,
plans on doing something that the real world can’t—increasing
the number of goods created so as to be in equilibrium with the
money supply227. A second weapon they have is to maintain an
exchange rate between their internal currency and the realworld dollar, so that the value of the newbie grubstake (and
potentially other fixed-amount items) can be kept reasonably
constant even if there is rampant inflation. It should be
interesting to see how all this pans out.
There.com is a commercial virtual world that explicitly
acknowledges the fact that its internal economy is linked to that
of the real world. This has been something that has been evident
for some time, ever since Ultima Online characters and
equipment started being offered for sale on eBay228. Some
227 Matthew Maier, Can a Metaverse Have Inflation? Business 2.0, March 2003.
http://www.business2. com/articles/mag/print/0,1643,47159,00.html.
228 It went on before then, of course, albeit on a much smaller scale. Even in
MUD1, a player tried to pay more experienced players to gain his character
some levels when he went off on vacation (although I don’t think anyone took
him up on the offer). In Shades, people charged £100 to play your character
up to wizard level for you. Still in the 1980s, someone on MUD2 actually sold
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 761
virtual worlds encourage it as part of their business model;
others condone it; most condemn it. Basically, though, it’s going
to happen with any large-scale commercial virtual world. It’s
just a case of whether this is a black-market, gray-market or
white-market economy229
.
And so we come to perhaps the second most famous230 of all
writings about virtual worlds: Edward Castronova’s Virtual
Worlds: A First-Hand Account of Market and Society on the
Cyberian Frontier231. From its somewhat dry title, you might
guess that the paper itself hasn’t been read by millions of
people. Its conclusions, however, made national newspapers
across the globe.
Castronova looks at Norrath (the name of EverQuest’s world) as
if it were a real country. He does it absolutely straight,
discarding objections that it’s “just a game”: If it’s important to
people, it’s important to study it. Choosing Norrath on the
grounds that it was the biggest virtual world in terms of
subscriptions and revenues232, he spent four months playing
and collecting data. This was supplemented by a survey that
attracted 3,619 respondents over a two-day period; the results of
this survey (weighted so as to account for the activities of less
involved players who didn’t hear about it) form the basis of
Castronova’s analysis.
his wizard character to another player; the character was terminated when
we found out.
229 Hi again, readers from 2053. How are phrases like “black market” viewed
now?
230 After A Rape in Cyberspace.
231 Edward Castronova, Virtual Worlds: A First-Hand Account of Market and
Society on the Cyberian Frontier. 2001.
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=294828.
232 The biggest English-language one, this is; otherwise, he’d have had to
learn Korean.
762 Chapter 6
Although this study is all very absorbing, particularly the
sections concerning the different markets for commerce within
Norrath, it’s what Castronova further did with his data that hit
the headlines. He noted that there was considerable trade
between Norrath and the real world, and decided to collect
further information concerning currency auctions so as to
estimate its volume. He found that in May 2001 one Norrathian
platinum piece sold for $0.0133 (that is, about one and a third
cents), although by September it had dropped somewhat to
$0.0098. He then looked at auctions of characters, to see if they
were over- or under-valued according to this exchange rate. He
found that a $1,000 character typically had more than $1,000 of
wealth (in terms of platinum piece prices), so they were
undervalued. It then occurred to him to figure out how much a
character was typically worth per level, and use data from his
user survey about the rate at which characters gain levels to
calculate how much wealth Norrath generates as a whole.
He discovered that each level of a character is worth about $13
at auction. Across the whole of Norrath, players were adding
around $15,000 of levels per hour. This leads to a gross national
product (GNP) of about $135,000,000. Dividing this by the
number of players to get the per capita GNP gives a figure of
$2,266—roughly the same as that of Russia, and the 77th richest
in the world. This is what attracted the attention of journalists.
Virtual worlds may be inhabited by people you wouldn’t want
your daughter to marry (not that she’d ever meet one), but ye
gods! They comprise the 77th richest country in the world!
Maybe there’s something important going on here that merits
significant attention?
As pleased as I am whenever virtual worlds are being taken
seriously, I nevertheless feel slightly uneasy here. GNP per
capita is used as an indicator for the social and economic wellbeing of a country; it’s more to do with standards of living than
absolute wealth. Although it is indeed frequently used to
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 763
measure the relative wealth of countries, it’s very sensitive to
population figures; low-population countries that are faring well
will rate better than high-population counties that aren’t, even
though the higher-population countries have as countries far
more wealth than the lower-population ones. Norrath may
equate with Russia in GNP per capita, but I don’t see Norrath
financing a space program.
Castronova followed up his findings with a second paper233 six
months later that considered whether virtual economies might
grow to the extent that they have an impact on real economies.
From a virtual world designer’s point of view, this is the more
interesting paper, mainly because of the many philosophical
points it raises. I personally believe that most of these can be
addressed by an understanding that virtual world developers
rule by divine right, but I appreciate how this may not be to
many players’ liking.
Castronova ends this second paper with a list of areas where
virtual-world economies don’t fit the standard models of realworld economies:
• In the real world, governments shouldn’t fix prices. In virtual
worlds, developers can create and destroy goods effortlessly,
therefore they don’t care about excess supply or demand.
Some price-fixing could work in them.
• People in the real world would rather not work. People in
virtual worlds would rather not not work—they get bored
with nothing to do.
• In the real world, economic growth is good. In virtual
worlds, increases in per capita wealth make it easier to
accomplish tasks and therefore lower the challenge that they
233 Edward Castronova, On Virtual Economies.2002.
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=338500.
764 Chapter 6
present. This means the world is less interesting, so growth
can be bad.
• Real-world economics treats populations as fixed and
assumes that their tastes and (initial) abilities are fixed. In
virtual worlds, people can choose (through player class
selection) to exhibit a subset of their abilities. They also can
choose (in the context of the world) to be more than one
person, and when to be alive.
Virtual world developers who employ real-world economists to
design their virtual economies would do well to ensure these
individuals have read On Virtual Economies first.
Castronova’s work suggests that people can make a living from
virtual worlds. This is borne out by the facts, too: In an April
2001 discussion234 among Ultima Online eBay sellers, it
transpired that some of them were taking in nearly $20,000 a
month. On the whole, it was much less than this, of course: High
sellers are often resellers, who (to use a real estate analogy)
invest hard cash in acquiring run-down “properties” that they
then spend considerable time and effort “refurbishing” to sell at
a profit.
As it happens, many big deals in UO involve what would be
called real estate if it weren’t actually virtual estate. People buy
and sell houses the whole time. For an article235 he was writing,
Julian Dibbell tracked the sale of a three-story tower from seller
to middle-man to buyer—just one such transaction of the
thousands that are undertaken daily in the real world for
imaginary items.
234 http://www.kanga.nu/archives/MUD-Dev-L/2001Q2/msg00242.php
235 Julian Dibbell, The Unreal Estate Boom. Wired, January 2003.
http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/11.01/gaming.html.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 765
When you can sell the virtual, how real does that make it?
Well, it makes it real enough for real companies to want a
presence in virtual worlds. After all, when you’ve run out of realworld territories to reach, where else can you go? The Sims
Online started the trend by integrating McDonald’s kiosks into
their virtual world; although intended mainly as a marketing
ploy (it certainly garnered a lot of publicity), this also had the
interesting effect of making the virtual seem more real (and,
perhaps in time, the real seem more virtual). It may be that the
most important thing that economists have brought to virtual
worlds is the realization that they are part of Reality.
Whether this is a good thing or a bad thing remains to be seen,
of course. If you bring the real into the virtual, you can’t pick
and choose what you get. Virtual McDonald’s means virtual
anti-McDonald’s protesters236
.
This links rather nicely (although, as will immediately become
apparent, not exactly convincingly) to our next topic: politics.
Politics
When players of virtual worlds refer to “politics,” they’re really
talking about systems of government. Politics will be involved
in any process by which people gain office, whether that office is
head of a country or head of the local chapter of Hell’s Angels. It
can happen in any virtual world where players have the ability
to gain power through the support of others. On the whole,
though, players use the term in the context of offices that grant
tangible, law-making powers to their holder, enforced by the
virtual world itself. There are other forms of politics that are
important for virtual worlds, especially so-called “issue” politics
236 Tony Walsh, Big Mac Attacked. Shift, November 2002.
http://www.shift.com/print/web/425/1.html.
766 Chapter 6
such as feminism; these, I cover where the particular issue is
discussed. Thus, with one exception that I’ll give at the end, this
section examines the research that people have undertaken
concerning the government of and in virtual worlds.
As with economics, most of the work done with politics in
virtual worlds has come from players and designers who
happen to have a background in that area. The best
explanation237 as to how and why political systems as a
gameplay mechanic make good sense in virtual worlds is by
Matthew Mihaly, who has experience of just such a system in
his virtual world Achaea (plus a degree in Political Science from
Cornell University). He characterizes political situations in
general as lying along a spectrum from static to dynamic. Static
systems, such as monarchies, have no competition for power at
the top but may have some lower down. Dynamic systems, such
as democracies, have competition for even the very highest
offices. Clearly, dynamic is more fun, but it does need a static
element or it becomes incapable of doing its job. If governments
changed daily, they wouldn’t get a lot done.
For designers of virtual worlds, implementing a formal political
system is good for four238 reasons:
• It provides a non-violent way for players to gain a sense
of achievement and involvement in the world.
• It creates a class of opinion leaders. When the live team
wants to make a major change, it only has to win over the
opinion leaders, not the whole player base. Opinion
237 Matthew Mihaly, Constructive Politics in a Massively Multiplayer Online
Roleplaying Game. Gamasutra, March 2000.
http://www.gamasutra.com/features/20000309/mihaly_01.htm.
238 Matt’s paper only gives the first three, but because he’s a reviewer of this
book he gets to add another one that he missed.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 767
leaders take much of the flak that would otherwise be
directed at the live team.
• It provides an incentive for experienced players to help
newbies.
• It can provide another dimension to gameplay, as there
are many interesting social dynamics that arise in
situations where characters have formal control over
aspects of other characters’ lives. This also increases the
possibility that “storyline” content can emerge from
player actions.
As for why players would want a political system, that’s not so
clear. Many of the reasons that people care about who governs
them in real life don’t apply in virtual worlds. They don’t, for
example, react the same way to despots: In the real world,
citizens may fear for their lives, but in virtual worlds they
simply leave if someone is taking the fun out of playing. Matt
narrows down the reasons that players might genuinely want a
system of in-world government to the following (none of which
are particularly strong):
• Comradeship. Players connect with other players in their
community, and care what happens to them. Comradeship is
good for a virtual world, but its presence isn’t dependent on
the existence of an in-world government.
• Public services. Players get access to facilities they wouldn’t
get access to if there wasn’t a government. This is only the
case because it is forced by the virtual world design, of
course, so it’s really an artificial reason.
• Glory by association. Your faction does well, so you feel good
about it.
This all assumes, of course, that some players will actually want
to be leaders. Matt concludes that there are four basic
motivators involved (yet another set of bullet points—sorry
folks!):
768 Chapter 6
• The desire for power (over other players)
• The desire for glory (that is, recognition by your peers)
• The challenge
• The desire to help
Checkpoint: Let’s see how the player types I described in
Chapter 3 fit into this. Power is clearly the domain of politicians
and glory is that of griefers. The other player types are more
general: Challenge is a motivator for both opportunists and
planners (that is, achievers); the desire to help is present in both
networkers and friends (that is, socializers). Because of what
politicking involves, I’d guess that more opportunists than
planners would be interested in the challenge aspect, as it’s
quite a long-term activity. I also suspect that fewer friends than
networkers will want to get involved, as the former tend to
interact mainly with the people they know, rather than the
population in general. This means that potential leaders would
be in the front, top-left corner of the 3D player interest graph
shown in Figure 3.4.
Okay, back to Matt’s analysis….
The critical thing about creating a system of offices is that they
must have meaning. Power doesn’t itself imply meaning: There
should be perceived benefits for letting people have the powers
in the first place. This is best done through the provision of
public services, but there are other ways that can work well, too.
Comradeship comes from the collective fear of, and responses
to, threats to the organization concerned; glory by association
follows from this (assuming that the organization does
occasionally triumph).
As for the type of government, Matt advocates a republic or
democracy with a hierarchy of offices (rather than standalone
“mayor” posts or whatever). Democracy is best, if only because
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 769
players who live in real-world democracies won’t accept
anything else239; hierarchies are desirable so that people can get
a taste of power without having to challenge influential players
for the top job, and because it’s another ladder to climb. The
nature of the hierarchy doesn’t have to be the same as in real life
governments, because there is no need to build in “checks and
balances”—real-live governments can abolish elections, but
virtual ones can’t if the programming enforces them. This
means that the system of government can be designed to
address directly the reasons for having it, making it more fun
for the players.
The hardest part of government design is deciding what powers
the player holders of offices have. With too little, the offices are
little more than sinecures; with too much, life for governed
players can become unbearable to the extent that they leave for
some other virtual world240. There’s also the problem of law
enforcement: Should the government only make laws that the
virtual world itself can enforce (for example, to ban stealing it
throws a switch that stops the “steal” command from working)
or can it add other laws (“spying,” “treason”) that would need
police and a judicial system to enforce? Even then, what could
the punishments be? Imprisonment in a virtual world isn’t quite
as big a deal as in the real one. What alternative justice systems
are there241?
239 This isn’t to say that there can’t be some organizations within the virtual
world that work to a different system—for example, a religious hierarchy
that works like a monarchy.
240 Or, less problematically, for another country/guild/whatever in the same
virtual world that has a more palatable government.
241 For some suggestions, see Derek Sanderson, Online Justice Systems.
Gamasutra, 2000.
http://www.gamasutra.com/features/20000321/sanderson_pfv.htm.
770 Chapter 6
Matthew Mihaly aside, most of the other articles about politics
in virtual worlds concern how particular virtual worlds
implement the concept. This is one field where large-scale
graphical worlds are breaking new ground, because their
textual predecessors didn’t often have the kind of player
numbers that made such a system viable. There are exceptions,
of course: Achaea itself, and (as mentioned in the Mr. Bungle
case) LambdaMOO.
The fact that LambdaMOO had politics might suggest that there
would be dozens of academic papers describing the goings-on.
That there isn’t is something of a surprise; A Rape in Cyberspace
pretty much says all that has been said. There is a good paper242
about the legal system that emerged from LambdaMOO, but
nothing243 about its politics.
Freed from any legacy of the past, designers have come up with
some very interesting approaches to politics. Nexon’s Dark
Ages244, for example, uses a notion of “political clout,” Clout is a
tangible measure of political ability attached to a character and
granted by the formal support of other characters; it must be
spent to attain office and to execute the political control that
comes with it. Roy Wilson, Jr. gives a good explanation245 of how
this works, at the same time illustrating the refreshing absence
of serious grief play that it engenders. The theory that
242 Jennifer L. Mnookin, Virtual(ly) Law: The Emergence of Law in LambdaMOO.
Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication Vol. 2 (1). 1996.
http://www.ascusc.org/jcmc/vol2/issue1/lambda.html.
243 Nothing I have found, this is. As usual, it’s quite possible that there is an
entire series of books on LambdaMOO politics that I have blithely failed to
notice.
244 http://www.darkages.com
245
http://www.darkages.com/2002/community/lore/Paladine_Politica/toc.html
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 771
underpins it is described in a rather more difficult article246 by
Dark Ages’s designer Dave Kennerly, which is hard to follow
without knowing what the virtual world is all about beforehand.
Another virtual world planned to have a strong political element
is Star Wars Galaxies. Here, drawing on ideas from Lineage,
politics is regarded as a profession; it has a skill tree associated
with it, and characters must have the right skill before they can
take political office. SWG’s design incorporates a very flexible
“player associations” system that allows players to form large
groups to focus on some aspect of the virtual world; politics is
one such aspect. There is some concern247 as to how grieferresistant this all is, however, especially as some of the powers
that players can obtain could make virtual life quite unpleasant
for other players.
Atriarch follows the general trend by allowing players to build
their own cities, install their own governments for those cities,
set taxes and laws, instigate trade routes, and so on.
Shadowbane, on the other hand, goes for a purely guild-based
system, allowing guilds to swear fealty to other guilds like
Asheron’s Call players do to other individuals. Guilds can build
cities, choose which government type to have (monarchy,
oligarchy, republic, democracy), and set tax rates for shops.
So, the ideas are there, if it’s not yet clear what kind of
consensus solution will emerge. It’s important to note that with
the exception of LambdaMOO, all the examples I’ve described so
far have concerned in-context government of virtual worlds.
Overall control of virtual worlds does not, in general, use the
same systems. You may be able to elect a town mayor, but that
246 Dave Kennerly, Dark Ages Politics in Theory and Practice. Imaginary Realities
Vol. 3 (9), September 2000.
247 Py Rathedan, Py’s Politics. http://swg-de.emr.net/e3.php.
772 Chapter 6
mayor can’t change patch release dates, subscription rates, or
the extinctness of a virtual volcano. That said, not all virtual
worlds are run by individual megalomaniacs, and some do
involve players in real-world policy decisions (A Tale in the
Desert, for example).
I’ve found two reasonably good studies that (as part of wider
investigations into the subject) look at how virtual worlds are
governed. Both were written by groups of students in 1998/99.
The report248 from Stanford University compares the
approaches of virtual worlds, chat systems, email mailing lists,
and newsgroups. Different types of government are described,
along with their strengths and weaknesses concerning the
online services under discussion. Virtual worlds249 are usually
feudal by nature, with a monarch having overlord powers over
an oligarchy that has powers over the rest of the player base.
Some virtual worlds are anarchies, which allow only for
ostracism and flaming to influence deviant behavior.
LambdaMOO was highly unusual in that not only was it a
democracy, but it was a direct-participation democracy rather
than a representative democracy.
The joint report250 from MIT and Harvard Law School mentions
the same monarchy-like hierarchical power structure that is
248 Jed Burgess, Michael Jahr, Jonathan Keljo, Josh Schroeder and Wilson
Sweitzer, Controlling the Virtual World: Governance of On-Line Communities.
Stanford University, 1999. http://www-cse.stanford.edu/classes/cs201/
projects-98-99/controlling-the-virtual-world/index.html.
249 The report only considers textual ones, which isn’t entirely surprising
given the date.
250 Jennifer Chung, Jason Linder, Ian Liu, Wendy Seltzer and May Tse,
Democratic Structures in Cyberspace. MIT, 1998.
http://www.swiss.ai.mit.edu/6095/student-papers/fall98-papers/
democracy/whitepaper.html.
There were some other interesting papers that year, too.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 773
typical of most virtual world administrations, but notes that
there is a form of democracy at work because players can
choose which world to play. If they don’t like what the
government is doing, they are at liberty to leave and find
somewhere more appealing. In other words, they can vote with
their feet. This makes virtual world developers accountable in a
way that real-life autocrats are not. The report also looks at
LambdaMOO, and concludes that the ultimate failure of its
democracy was evidence that this is not a viable form of
government for virtual communities. The LambdaMOO
developers had power but didn’t want the responsibility that
went with it, so they passed power to the players.
Unfortunately, the one power they couldn’t pass—control of the
physical hardware—overrode all the other powers. Attempting
to separate social from technical issues does not work when the
social is rooted in the technical.
The control of virtual worlds only involves player politics if it
involves players. So far, the experiments in that direction have
had mixed results251, and the paradigm is for a developer
hegemony to rule. It’s conceivable that players could set up cooperatives to develop and run virtual worlds on democratic or
shared-ownership principles, but it’s not going to happen until
the cost of creating and operating commercial virtual worlds
has dropped substantially.
Something that is rarely mentioned is the possibility of using
virtual worlds to make political statements about the real world.
The reason, of course, is that designers are wary of making
http://www.swiss.ai.mit.edu/6095/student-papers/fall98-papers/ studentpapers.html.
251 For a review, see Charles J. Stivale, “Help Manners”: Cyber-Democracy and
its Vicissitudes. Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, Wayne
State University, 1995.
http://www.utdallas.edu/~cynthiah/lingua_archive/help_manners.html.
774 Chapter 6
overtly political points for fear of putting off prospective
players. Nevertheless, as we shall see in Chapter 7, “Toward a
Critical Aesthetic,” it’s quite possible to use virtual worlds to
make artistic statements; politics drives some people’s art.
Another point that is not made very often252 is that if virtual
worlds are places with populations and governments and a
currency with a real-world exchange rate, at what point should
they be considered to be countries in their own right?
EverQuest’s population is bigger than that of Iceland, Qatar,
Luxembourg, Equatorial Guinea, and so on. If Malta can send a
representative to the United Nations and accept ambassadors
from other countries, why can’t Norrath?
And now we reach the final piece I’d like to mention about
politics in virtual worlds. This one really is about politics—
genuine, polemical, oh-my-gawd-get-me-out-of-here ideological
theory applied to virtual worlds.
Brace yourself….
Using a Marxism versus capitalism line of reasoning, Annalee
Newitz argues253 that the freedom to be a different person
online is only illusory. The Marxist perspective is that people
work to get beyond their material needs, thereby acquiring an
intellectual freedom; work is therefore the fundamental that
gives life meaning. In a capitalist system, this is not the case:
You sell your labor to other people and must therefore behave as
252 The first place I saw it mentioned was in a 2002 series of three speculative
articles by a player who used the handle Moron (it must have seemed a good
idea at the time). http://www.joystick101.org/story/2002/2/12/14207/1757
http://www.joystick101.org/story/2002/2/13/124943/302
http://www.joystick101.org/story/2002/7/11/142124/517
253 Annalee Newitz, Surplus Identity On-Line. Bad Subjects. 18, January 1995.
http://eserver.org/bs/18/newitz.html.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 775
they require. This means adopting a work persona different
from your real self (smiling at customers when you’re not
happy, working on despite being tired, and so on).
Newitz’s argument is that people in capitalist societies are so
used to believing that different social environments require
them to manifest different personalities that they create one
automatically when they enter a virtual world. This virtual
personality has no direct link to the material world, and
therefore it is surplus, worn only for pleasure.
Surplus is capitalism’s promise, and people are seduced by it.
Individuals in a capitalist society don’t consider that they work
to survive; instead, they feel that they work so as to produce a
surplus of free time. They believe that free time liberates them
from their material needs, whereas really it strips their lives of
meaning (because meaning comes from labor). From this
perspective, adding an extra, unnecessary self merely increases
the number of partial selves that an individual has but that can
never (except by adopting the Marxist approach) be reconciled.
People would be better off if they stayed with the real instead of
flirting with the virtual.
In other words, your virtual self is meaningless because you
can’t do what makes your life meaningful in virtual worlds.
This is a very powerful point, whether or not you accept the
Marxist reasoning by which it was derived. Personally, I don’t
know enough about the ideology to be able to comment on it254;
I do know about virtual worlds, though, and (as I’ve argued in
this book) I believe strongly that they bring multiple selves
together rather than keep them apart. You may not be able to
change your work self, but you can blend your virtual self and
254 This is rarely a barrier for more politicized people, of course.
776 Chapter 6
your real self together into one. Thus, although it may from a
Marxist standpoint be possible to level all manner of charges
against virtual worlds, I don’t think that the installation of
contradictory identities is one that necessarily holds.
Autobiography
Virtual worlds have such an effect on people that often they
want to write about their experiences. Although most of this
takes the form of what might be called “fan fiction,” a little is
more personal. Some players keep logs, some keep diaries; some
write essays, some write poetry. A very small few write fullblown autobiographies that cover the period of their life that
they spent in (and out) of virtual worlds. As the ethnography of
an individual, these are remarkable resources; as a recounting of
their author’s own, private hero’s journey, they’re invaluable.
I am aware of only two255 such autobiographies: those of Julian
Dibbell and Indra Sinha.
My Tiny Life256 concerns the three intense months that Julian
Dibbell spent in LamdbaMOO. It begins with a retelling of A
Rape in Cyberspace, then launches into Dibbell’s experiences as a
player in this post-Mr. Bungle world. Although the book
chronicles these goings-on very well, actually it isn’t really about
them at all: Instead, what it charts is how by playing
LambdaMOO, Dibbell overcame the insecurities he was
experiencing about his love for his then girlfriend (now wife).
The virtual world gave him an outlook on the real world that he
didn’t have previously, enabling him to look at himself in new
ways. From this, he developed a stronger sense of self-worth,
through which he was able to overcome any lingering doubts
255 As usual, this doesn’t mean there aren’t scores more out there.
256 Julian Dibbell, My Tiny Life: Crime and Passion in a Virtual World. London,
Fourth Estate, 1999.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 777
about commitment that he still had. Dibbell doesn’t say this
directly in his book, but it is hinted at throughout; it’s clear he
feels genuine gratitude to LambdaMOO for what it taught him.
Basically, LambdaMOO was where he finally grew up.
The picture of LambdaMOO itself that emerges is vaguely
disturbing, like some ghastly reality TV experiment gone
hideously awry. All you can do in LambdaMOO is create objects
and talk to people. There are some elements of gameplay within
individual creations, but these do not connect with one another
cohesively. All activity therefore revolves around creating (for
which a strict quota system exists) or talking and emoting. This
doesn’t leave great scope for people to have fun: They’re pretty
well limited to acquiring quota (which acts not so much as a
currency as Dark Ages-like clout) or performing acts of virtual
sex—both of which involve tiresome interpersonal politics.
Some of what Dibbell describes should give designers pause for
thought, in particular the schmoo wars (where players rose up
against the “power elite” that they felt governed LambdaMOO);
most of it seems incredibly shallow and petty, however. This, of
course, is part of Dibbell’s point.
The book has some nice stylistic touches that help blur the lines
between the real and the virtual; in particular, events that occur
in real life are written like transcripts of a LambdaMOO session
whereas events in LambdaMOO appear in conventional
narrative form. Its main strength, however, is its content: It is
the perfect riposte to anyone who tells players of virtual worlds
that they should “get a life!” For this, we should all be grateful.
The second autobiographical work I’m going to mention is a
much harder read, not least because it consists of over a
778 Chapter 6
hundred very small, choppy chapters. The Cybergypsies257 is
Indra Sinha’s account of his time in Shades and Void258 (which he
switched to once British Telecom closed down Shades).
Yes, Shades and Void—his experiences predate Julian Dibbell’s
by several years.
Again, what the book purports to be about isn’t what it’s actually
about. Its subtext is the author’s relationship with the love of his
life (his wife, whom he greatly neglected while playing in virtual
worlds). This time, though, the view expressed seems somewhat
harsher: Ultimately, Sinha stopped playing because he realized
that events he thought important in the virtual world were
trifling and inconsequential when compared with events of the
real world259
.
The book consists of three main threads—a device to highlight
the way that the real and the virtual are interwoven. The first of
these threads concerns virtual worlds; the second concerns
Reality; the third concerns computer viruses. This last one does
not sit at all well with the other two: Although Shades and
Reality overlap (Sinha met Shades players in real life), the
viruses thread could be unpicked without affecting the integrity
of the whole work one jot. Its presence serves mainly to propose
an analogy: Playing virtual worlds introduces an addiction into
the lives of players that can be as disruptive for them as the
arrival of a virus is on a personal computer. This works if the
payload that is delivered by playing virtual worlds is not
257 Indra Sinha, The Cybergypsies: A Frank Account of Love, Life and Travels on
the Electronic Frontier. London, Scribner, 1999.
258 He calls it Vortex, but it’s Void.
259 There’s no indication as to whether his wife got any more attention once
he directed his energies toward Amnesty International than she did when he
was playing Shades though.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 779
considered benign, but (as someone who believes that in general
it is benign) I’m not convinced by it myself.
From the preceding it may appear that Sinha is contemptuous
of virtual worlds, but this is not the case. His fondness for Void,
if not Shades, is apparent and sincere. Rather his attitude seems
to be that virtual worlds are places you visit to find out what
your problems are and where you can grow as you address
these problems, but that once this is done you will inevitably
come back to Reality. I wouldn’t disagree with this, except to
note that you can be “master of the two worlds’; later return is
possible.
Sinha does, however, have one particularly serious concern
about virtual worlds that he expresses as “what we imagine, we
make.” In Void, one of his friends described an incident where
she and others ate another character at a feast; she further
explained that far “worse” things often happened. It was okay,
though, because the virtual world was imaginary, and anything
done in the imagination is “safe.” Sinha’s reaction was that no, it
is not safe: People use the same emotional faculties in the real
world that they use in virtual worlds, and by tolerating a
sickening virtual action they are also modifying what they
would tolerate in Reality; they are becoming desensitized. If
imaginary cruelty is considered to be acceptable, real cruelty
inevitably becomes more acceptable than it was previously.
Although this is a powerful observation260
, it is quite selective. I
agree that such things do indeed occur in virtual worlds, but
would counter that in the majority of cases the virtual world is
set up such that positive changes in attitude greatly outweigh
260 And one regularly used as ammunition against the portrayal of violence in
computer games, movies, comics, rap music, and cartoons (but less so
against the real violence shown in TV news and documentaries).
780 Chapter 6
negative ones. Designers bear the primary responsibility of
ensuring that this should be so, although the players themselves
are also culpable: The cannibalistic feast in Void was enacted
entirely through emotes, not some bizarre “eat person”
command. Any virtual world set up (deliberately or otherwise)
to change players’ attitudes in ways that society finds
unacceptable is for society to deal with. As far as I know, there
are no such virtual worlds in existence; that’s not to say that
this will always be the case, however.
In Sinha’s book, his father-in-law gets interested in Scientology.
The way that this eminently sensible man is gradually drawn in
as he strives to gain different “levels” of awareness is contrasted
with the way that players of virtual worlds find themselves on
leveling treadmills that they somehow can’t leave. It’s an
amusing analogy: virtual world designers as theocrats.
It also provides a handy link to the next topic….
Theology
Theology? Why would a theologist…?
Then it hits you: As the real is to the virtual, so the spiritual is to
the real. Theologists should be more interested in virtual worlds
than perhaps anyone else except the designers of such worlds
themselves.
I have two points to make before I begin this discussion.
Firstly, I’m an atheist. I’m going to be talking about religions
here, and try as I might to be objective it’s inevitable that my
views are going to show through in places. If this is likely to
offend you, please skip the remainder of this section.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 781
Secondly, I’m an atheist. I regard ethics and morality as
important issues, but I don’t associate them with particular
religious doctrines. Therefore, some of the things I’ll be talking
about might not seem to be theology-related at all. If this
apparent belittling of faith is likely to offend you, you too should
skip the remainder of this section.
Okay, so let’s get started….
A July 1999 poll261 in The Mud Journal asked “What kind of Mud
would you like more of?” Of the 362 people who responded 10.3%
indicated that they would like to see more religious-themed
virtual worlds. This was lower than any of the other genres
(horror 24.2%, futuristic 21.8%, old western 19.8%, sci-fi 13.3%,
real world events 10.6%) but nevertheless 10.3% is not
insignificant.
Even so, many players and designers would be surprised to
learn that there are virtual worlds in existence right now that
were built as places of worship for real-life religions. I don’t just
mean technopaganism, either, although this was among the
first to be studied262; there are virtual worlds created as places
for people to participate in mainstream religious services, too.
The E-church263, for example, was set up by a group of
Christians in the charismatic tradition, and has met with some
261 Tony Allen, MUD Stats. The Mud Journal, July 1999.
http://mudworld.inetsolve.com/TMJ/editorials/jul99/allen2.php3.
262 Stephen D. O’Leary, Cyberspace as Sacred Space: Communicating Religion on
Computer Networks. Journal of the American Academy of Religion Vol. 64 (4),
1996.
263 So as to protect it, this is not its real name. Interestingly, it’s a graphical
world, rather than the textual kind that might be expected.
782 Chapter 6
success at reproducing some of the essential features of a
conventional church service264, if not the experience.
Technopagans attempt to create a virtual space that can be
sanctified as a place in which spirit is manifested. The Echurch’s congregation, on the other hand, tries to replicate the
real in the virtual; it only partially succeeds, because the
technology gets in the way of some aspects of the service.
Nevertheless, the E-church is adapting to account for these, and
also to exploit some of the advantages that virtuality brings.
Whether these experiments will lead to more or less real-world
religious activity in virtual worlds depends on the specific
religions involved, of course. It would take something of a
debate before conventional Christian churches allowed baptism
or weddings in virtual worlds, for example; the Roman Catholic
Eucharist presents particularly thorny problems.
In an examination265 of religions and cyberspace (including
virtual worlds), Lorne L. Dawson noted the following additional
traps awaiting anyone intending to move any religion from the
real to the virtual—or, indeed, to create a new religion for
virtual spaces only:
• The propagation of misinformation and
misunderstandings
• Loss of control over religious materials
• Loss of group identity among practitioners of religions
264 Ralph Schroeder, Noel Heather and Raymond M. Lee, The Sacred and the
Virtual: Religion in Multi-User Virtual Reality. Journal of Computer Mediated
Communication Vol. 4 (2), December 1998.
http://jcmc.huji.ac.il/vol4/issue2/schroeder.html.
265 Lorne. L. Dawson, Doing Religion in Cyberspace: The Promise and the Perils.
The Council of Societies for the Study of Religion Bulletin Vol. 30 (1), 2001.
http://www.arts.uwaterloo,ca/SOC/relcybercsssr.htm.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 783
• Negative effects of the interface
• Blurring the frames of reality
For the most part, virtual worlds are not regarded by their
inhabitants as places where religion is important. Morality is
important, but the basis of this—religious or otherwise—is
rarely mentioned. Not only would it often be non-immersive to
bring real-world religion into a virtual world, but (along with
discussions about politics) it offers a good opportunity to fall
out with your friends. That said, many virtual worlds do have a
formal or informal system of etiquette in place for the bulk of
their players, along with a stronger system of ethics for their
administrators. Some of the latter go back years: The MUSH
favorite Amberyl’s Wizard Ethics266 has remained unchanged
since 1994, and MUD2’s Good Wiz Guide267 dates back to MUD1.
In an early analysis268 of the problem of determining an ethical
system for virtual worlds, Chuck Haeberle poses the question:
Should the moral values and ethics which we consider to be
valid in real life be applied to the virtual world, or should we
look at the virtual world as existing with a separate set of
ethics? Ethical standards exist wherever humans exist, so
virtual worlds—even anarchic ones—must have them.
Haeberle notes that a virtual world operates over a potentially
unending period, and that its players define how it is played by
how they play it. They must always abide by the rules of the
virtual world in which they play, but if they don’t like those
rules they can play elsewhere. For this reason, some real-world
266 Lydia Leong, Amberyl’s Wizard Ethics.
http://www.godlike.com/mushman/wiz-ethics.html.
267 Not available to non-wizzes—sorry!
268 Chuck Haeberle, An Essay on Ethics and Virtual Reality.
http://www.legendmud.org/Bibliography/texts/essay.html.
784 Chapter 6
values must be carried over— they’re part of the value
judgment.
Virtual worlds are an extension of real life; the interaction
between players gives rise to a real-life morality that makes
virtual worlds more than the mere games they would otherwise
be. In other words, it’s because we’re real that virtual worlds
must be treated in moral terms as if they were equally real.
That said, there are big differences between virtual worlds and
Reality. An ethical system that has evolved for real life may need
to be adapted if it is to hold in virtual worlds, too. This is the
position of Michael Cranford, who identifies269 the desire to be
more greatly immersed as the great allure of virtual worlds.
Virtual worlds offer the prospect of existence without limits; yet
without limits, whence comes meaning? If everything is
possible, if risk and consequence are not factors, why would
anybody treat other people in a dignified or sensitive manner?
Haeberle is right in that people should bring real-world morality
into virtual worlds, but that doesn’t mean they do. Furthermore,
if other people treat you badly in this virtual world, there’s no
guarantee they won’t follow you to whichever other virtual
world you go to instead. Cranford is ultimately pessimistic,
seeing the ethical systems of virtual worlds as potentially
eroding those of Reality. Because virtual worlds have fewer
constraints than Reality, some degree of retrogressive behavior
is inevitable.
Cranford’s argument is basically anthropological. It’s
interesting, therefore, to see what bona fide students of
anthropology have to say on the subject of religion in virtual
269 Michael Cranford, The Social Trajectory of Virtual Reality: Substantive Ethics
in a World Without Constraints. Technology and Society Vol. 18, 1996.
http://sundoulos.com/articles.aspx?in=18.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 785
worlds. Many anthropologists take the view that a culture
without religion is no culture at all; however, they have quite
inclusive views as to what “religion” may be. Any system of
beliefs in supernatural forces—with accompanying symbols
and rituals—that serve to help people make sense of the world
is a religion; deities are not a necessary component. From this
perspective, do virtual worlds have anything in them that would
qualify as “religion”? If so, it strengthens their claim to separate
culture status; if not, it weakens it.
There is an argument270 that although virtual world cultures
don’t usually have an explicit religion, nevertheless they do have
so many components that are analogous to what religions have
that they could be treated as if they did have religions271. For
example, logging in is an acceptance of the “truth” of virtual
worlds, signifying a belief in the non-real—a very ritualistic
process.
That there is, for certain people, a religious aspect to virtual
worlds is the conclusion of Jen Clodius in her discussion272 of
religion in DragonMUD. She noted that there were many
traditional religious symbols in DragonMUD, but that these
were present entirely for their evocative effects; if DragonMUD
did indeed have a religious aspect, it would need to have
symbols of its own. It did have some ceremony (particularly
concerning the raising of players to the rank of wizard, that is,
junior administrator). Could it be argued that this was basically
a religious act at root?
270 I first encountered this in a 1998 anthropology paper by a student at the
University of Twente in The Netherlands. Unfortunately, although I have a
hard copy of the original, it does not bear the name of the author, nor is it
any longer available on the Internet.
271 In other words, they “virtually” have a religion.
272 Jennifer A. Clodius, Ritual and Religion in DragonMUD.
http://dragonmud.com/people/jen/ritual.html.
786 Chapter 6
Starting with a very well-known anthropological definition273 of
religion from Clifford Geertz, she invited members of the
DragonMUD community to debate the suggestion that there
was a religious aspect to that virtual world. Twenty-five
participated in the resulting discussion. Taking a check-list
approach to each element of Geertz’s definition in turn, the
players decided:
• DragonMUD has symbols. Some objects have a
permanent place in the virtual world and have real-life
significance to players, therefore they act as symbols.
• These symbols can act to establish long-lasting moods
and motivations. Furthermore, they do so in themselves;
however, these motivations are primarily social. On the
whole, the consensus was that the virtual world’s
symbols did satisfy this clause of Geertz’s criteria, but
not everyone agreed.
• There are conceptions of a general order of existence in
DragonMUD, assuming the context is DragonMUD itself
and not the real world.
• DragonMUD’s symbols clothe the conceptions of order
with an aura of factuality because of their permanence
and their meaning to the players.
• DragonMUD has a unique realism. It’s less clear whether
the clothing of conceptions of an order of existence in
factuality caused this, though.
273 “A religion is a system of symbols, which acts to establish powerful,
pervasive and long-lasting moods and motivations by formulating
conceptions of a general order of existence and clothing these conceptions
with such an aura of factuality that the moods and motivations seem
uniquely realistic.”
Clifford Geertz, Religion as a Cultural System. Chapter 4 of Clifford Geertz, The
Interpretation of Cultures. New York, Basic Books, 1973.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 787
Clodius concludes that for some players there is a religious
aspect to DragonMUD, but she is hesitant to go beyond that due
to what she perceives as her own possible cynicism concerning
their motivations. Personally, I believe her cynicism to be more
than justified.
The DragonMUD players involved in the discussion criticized
Geertz’s definition for its omission of any reference to a sense of
“awe” or of the “sacred.” I think perhaps they missed the point:
These are implicit in Geertz’s definition, which the players did
not realize in their haste to show that DragonMUD did indeed
have a religious aspect to it. If more of them had understood
what Geertz was actually saying with his definition, they might
have been less quick to assert that it applied to their virtual
world. This isn’t to say that it doesn’t apply, of course—some
players expressed that they did have a sense of awe concerning
DragonMUD—but rather that the debate was incomplete274
.
So far, I’ve described what religion has to say about virtual
worlds, but not what virtual worlds have to say about religion.
This is no different to what I’ve done in discussing other
disciplines, of course: Virtual world designers may be interested
in what geographers have to say about virtual worlds, but
they’re not concerned with the problems that virtual worlds
give geographers—that’s for geographers to worry about. In the
case of religion, however, the creator/created analogy is too
strong: The questions that virtual world designers pose for
theologians are questions that PCs and NPCs pose for designers.
274 DragonMUD’s creator, Caern, was present at the debate and admitted to
no feeling of awe at all. His reason, which every designer of virtual worlds
will immediately understand, was, “it’s hard to be awed by the wires one’s
pulled oneself.”
788 Chapter 6
In her book The Pearly Gates of Cyberspace275, Margaret
Wertheim argues that what cyberspace offers (in both its
virtual-world present and its cyberpunk promise) is akin to the
world-view of medieval Christians. Back then, people had the
notion that they were simultaneously embedded in both a
physical world and a spiritual world. Wertheim charts this view
through various scientific and mathematical spaces until she
arrives at cyberspace, which has a physical/virtual split that
mirrors the physical/ spiritual split of the medieval age.
This book is a great starting place if you want to look into the
spiritual and the virtual more fully. It’s not specific to virtual
worlds, but they are mentioned, and what she says certainly
applies to them. Her contention is that human beings have
always had “other worlds,” whether Aboriginal Dreamtime or
Greek Olympus, and that Western cultures in particular have
always associated immateriality with spirituality276. Virtual
worlds’ offer of death that isn’t death is precisely what is
promised by many religions. The level system of virtual worlds
is like Dante’s description of the nine circles of Hell, the nine
cornices of Purgatory and the nine spheres of Heaven: Players
advance in experience and understanding until their ultimate
ascendance to wizardhood. Cyberspace is being claimed as a
realm for the self; this book explores how it could be a realm for
the soul.
Although the analogy between virtual and spiritual spaces is
easy to draw, the consequences of it are not. Wertheim
275 Margaret Wertheim, The Pearly Gates of Cyberspace: A History of Space
from Dante to the Internet. London, Virago, 1999.
276 She doesn’t mean this in the atheistic sense, that is, “spirituality is
immaterial to me, mate.” On the other hand, she doesn’t take the truth or
otherwise of spiritual existence as a given; she talks about the beliefs of
others, but does not push her own beliefs (whatever they may be). Her book
is very objective in this regard.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 789
identifies the morality and ethics present in virtual spaces as
much harder to explain than is the case for spiritual spaces.
Although she takes some tentative steps, she never really comes
close to answering her question. The moral underpinnings of
virtual worlds cannot be explained in a self-contained fashion by
the same appeal to the word of some deity that is available for
spiritual worlds.
Kevin Kelly’s Out of Control277 makes a very interesting point
about the recursive nature of creation. In a wide-ranging
eclectic mix of cyberholism, Kelly invests a few pages talking
about virtual worlds. At first, this is the usual stuff about MUDs,
MOOs, and quotes from Turkle. Then, however, he makes his
killer observation.
The ultimate “god game” would be a vast world, set into motion
with a few well-chosen rules and populated by PCs and
autonomous, AI-driven NPCs. Time would pass, relationships
and interrelationships would form and tangle. All entities—PCs
and NPCs— would alter their world, physically and socially,
until it evolved into something quite different from how it
started. At that point, the god who created it descends into it.
Kelly’s is not a religious book, let alone a Christian one, but he
uses a Christian analogy to pursue his argument. He describes
the Biblical story of the Creation in terms of a designer creating
a world. At the end, the designer (that is, God) creates a
simulacrum of himself that he instantiates as Adam. He makes
Adam just like he himself is, with free will and creativity. He
turns Adam loose in the world.
Mankind is now repeating the exercise; we are creating our own
worlds. Is this the final act that completes God’s genesis—
277 Kevin Kelly, Out of Control. New York, Addison Wesley, 1994.
790 Chapter 6
makes us truly the copies of him that we were always intended
to be—or is it a foolish audacity?
Put another way, is it a sacrament or a blasphemy? If you accept
God as the creator of the universe, it must be one or the other—
there’s no partial solution. By creating a virtual world, either
you are completing God’s plan that humanity be in his image
(sacrament, but does this mean God’s work is now done?), or
you are mocking him through your arrogance and false pride
(blasphemy, but does this mean humanity can never consider
itself truly to be in God’s image?).
Either way, just like God’s creation of mankind, any free-willed
virtual creatures the designer creates will not be under the
designer’s control: The creator has to pass control to the
created. The designer—whether you or God—must “let go to
win”278
.
A third book, TechGnosis279 by Erik Davis, reverses the
argument: By creating virtual worlds, we become the gods that
we weren’t before. Like Wertheim, Davis takes the point of view
that the technical merely hides the same mystical that
humanity has always sought (although his approach is less
anthropological and more evangelical). Virtual worlds are just
one example of where this happens—the scope of the book is
much wider. Nevertheless, in the few pages that he dedicates to
the virtual worlds, Davis raises a number of interesting points.
278 An idea that I don’t explore here but which might nevertheless give people
food for thought is: Under what circumstances would you, as a designer, let
your AI-controlled NPCs know that you exist? Why wouldn’t you do it
immediately? Why not periodically? Why not once they’ve reached the ability
to create virtual worlds within their virtual world? And how do your answers
to these questions compare with the choices apparently made by (the
Christian) God?
279 Erik Davis, TechGnosis. New York, Harmony Books, 1998.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 791
Firstly, he notes that virtual worlds of all kinds use magic as a
metaphor to explain the kinds of things that you can do in them
that you can’t do in Reality. They present a mystical fiction to
account for the technological fact.
Secondly, he observes that permanent death crystallizes a
philosophical question concerning immersion. Do we identify
with our online selves because they are as liberated as we want
to be, or because they are as constrained as we really are280?
Finally, he makes a connection with Hinduism. The word avatar,
used in (mainly graphical) virtual worlds to denote the virtual
object under the player’s control, has Hindu roots. It came to
virtual worlds through Habitat, although it was also used in the
(single-player) Ultima series (of which many virtual world
designers were aware) so it didn’t need any explaining to
them281. In Hindu belief, avatars have two identities: As separate
from the gods; as indivisible from the gods. Virtual world
avatars have the same duality of separation (two worlds) and
identity (same person), but they apply the concept in reverse:
People become gods; gods don’t become people. Davis remains
undecided as to whether this is an ascent or a descent of the
spirit.
The similarity between virtual world existence and Hindu
mysticism has been noted many times282. A remarkable 1992
paper283 by Thyagi NagaSiva goes one step further, and
280 He doesn’t ask whether the identification could be due to the fact that
ultimately they are us, which is my own point of view.
281 It was also, you may recall, the name of a very early virtual world on
PLATO.
282 Most unexpectedly in Edward Castronova’s On Virtual Economies paper.
283 Thyagi NagaSiva, The MUD as a Basis for Western Mysticism. 1992.
http://www.luckymojo.com/avidyana/gnostik/mudpsyc.html.
792 Chapter 6
proposes the use of virtual worlds as a foundation metaphor for
a new, Western mysticism.
NagaSiva takes the view that virtual worlds are places where
different aspects of the individual can exist—different selves, in
other words. The existent of different selves is not restricted to
virtual worlds, however—Reality has many situations where
individuals can be regarded as having a self different to that
present in other situations. NagaSiva suggests that it is
insightful to regard these different selves as existing in their
own, private “virtual world.” Whether this virtual world is an
actual virtual world running on an actual computer or a
metaphorical virtual world is immaterial; the two may be
considered as equally “real.” What we normally mean by Reality
is therefore simply an agglomeration of multiple virtual worlds;
true Reality would be the superset of all virtual worlds284, a
subject/object unity akin to the Buddhist Nirvana or Christian
Heaven. Individual virtual worlds are merely the worlds
inhabited by particular instantiations of the self. People can find
NagaSiva’s notion of Reality in any of their virtual worlds,
although they will not usually perceive it in normal states of
consciousness. You find Reality by unifying with the divine,
thereby both transcending and subsuming the virtual world
experience.
NagaSiva’s paper seems a good place to end this discussion of
theology and virtual worlds, but I shall nevertheless carry on
(not least because ending here would imply I was for NagaSiva’s
proposal, which I’m not285). Instead, I’m going to take a brief
look at the design of in-context religions (or, strictly speaking,
284 Remember here that from NagaSiva’s point of view, “virtual world” means
the world inhabited by a single virtual self; he doesn’t mean an enumeration
of every descendant of MUD1.
285 If you insist on knowing why, it’s because I find his concept of Reality
distinctly unappealing and never wish to find any of my selves there.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 793
deities) for virtual worlds. There isn’t a lot of work in this area;
the main paper, Dan Hastings’s Designing God286, is very short. It
does, however, cover most of the basics287:
• Are gods necessary?
• If so, do the gods exist in the virtual world or are they merely
fictional?
• Who are the gods?
• What do they want?
• Where did they come from?
• Why are they here?
There’s great scope for designer creativity in this area;
pantheons in particular offer fine opportunities for combining
philosophical and artistic points with gameplay elements. Do
the gods represent: emotional concepts (love, hate, trust);
aspects of life (time, fate, chance); aspects of nature (air, sea,
forest); natural forces (fire, storms, earthquakes); aspects of
balance (law, chaos, good, evil)? Or do they represent something
else entirely?
There are some interesting consequences of having gods288 in
virtual worlds, all of which need to be determined by the
designer. What, for example, is the effect of worshiping a god (or
of not doing so)? What are the myths, and do they conflict? How
did these give rise to the symbols and rituals of faith that turn it
into a religion? How much of the religion should be
programmed in as laws of nature (which wouldn’t be tangibly
286 Dan Hastings, Designing God. Imaginary Realities Vol. 3 (1), January 2000.
http://home.clara.net/stormbringer/mudos/designing_god.html.
287 The main omission is how characters interact with deities (if indeed they
can at all).
288 Or a single god; the designs for monotheistic, dualistic, and polytheistic
worlds have their own distinct issues.
794 Chapter 6
different to laws of the land?) and how much should be left to
enforcement by players or NPCs?
A very interesting mechanism for implementing religion is
described in an article by Paul Schwanz289. His idea is to codify
morality as tangible properties along four dimensions: health,
wealth, power, and information. Players choose their characters
to be givers or takers along each dimension, and the degree to
which they are so. When players undertake an action, any
reward they gain is split along those dimensions. Thus, for
example, a character who kills a king would gain points if they
were an assassin (rating high for taking health and power) but
the king’s physician would lose points (because they are lifegiving and loyal, that is, power-giving). Conversely, an assassin
who healed a king would lose points, whereas a healer would
gain them. By this ruse, players get to decide on the morality of
their characters and can role-play them appropriately.
As a system of morality, which could be used to give value to
any virtual religion, this is an excellent approach. For identity
exploration, though, it presents a barrier. This, perhaps, is the
great irony of all virtual-world religious experience: It changes
the player, but it can’t itself change in response. For such
adaptability, people must rely on either themselves or on other
people. Whether these other people are real, virtual, or
imaginary depends entirely on the religion.
289 Paul E. Schwanz II, Morality in Massively Multi-Player Online Role-Playing
Games. April 2000.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 795
Virtual Worlds as Subfields
At the start of this chapter, I said that I would not be going into
great detail concerning the disciplines that regard virtual
worlds as a subfield. Hopefully, this will be something of a relief,
given how long I spent looking at disciplines that regard virtual
worlds as (on the whole) independent phenomena.
Some of the points I’ll be making here do have wider application
in the context of this book, and I’ll describe these in more detail.
Others don’t, and for them I’ll limit myself to an overview and
some pointers as to where interested readers can look if they
don’t feel their academic energies have yet been exhausted.
Oh, I should mention that the brevity of my discussions here
means that I am perforce required to make sweeping
generalizations that could well cause anyone who actually
works in the areas concerned to splutter with rage. Don’t say
you weren’t warned.
Literary Theory
Virtual worlds fall awkwardly between literary theory and
dramatic theory, and are claimed by both.
• Literature. Authors tell stories. Some stories have multiple
authors. Some stories are made by the telling. Some stories
are modified as they are told. Some stories are improvised as
the author proceeds. Some stories are interactive with the
reader. Some stories allow the reader to become the author.
• Drama. Actors perform plays. Some plays have multiple
dramatists. Some plays are scripted. Some plays are
frameworks. Some plays are improvised by the actors. Some
plays are interactive with the audience. Some plays allow the
audience to become actors.
796 Chapter 6
The view of literary theorists is that ultimately action in virtual
worlds is textual290, therefore literature. The view of drama
theorists is that ultimately action is performance, therefore
drama. Researchers from both fields realize that the other has a
point, however, and that with virtual worlds they share
common ground. Occupying that ground already is the roleplaying community, who have basically had to develop their
own theories from scratch and now find that these are
attracting more widespread attention.
So, literature first.
From the point of view of virtual world designers, the most
interesting thing that students of Literature have to say about
virtual worlds is that they do not have story in the conventional
sense. Virtual worlds are open storytelling environments—
that’s precisely what literary theorists find exciting about them.
It’s almost taken as a given that conventional storytelling ideas
do not apply to virtual worlds. There are plenty of reasons why
virtual world designers might want them to apply291, but there
doesn’t appear to be any interest in this from people whose job
it is to study story. Indeed, some come right out and say as
much: Jesper Juul, looking at292 narrative as it occurs in
290 Although most of the work that has been undertaken in this area concerns
textual worlds, that does not preclude graphical worlds from the equation. In
the same way that writing can be regarded as performative, images can be
scriptualized. This is a general point made in Mike Sandbothe, Digital
Entanglements: A Media-Philosophical analysis of Images, Language and Writing
on the Internet. 1998. http://www2.uni-jena.de/ms/digi/digi.html.
291 Chris Klug, Implementing Stories in Massively Multiplayer Games.
Gamasutra, September 2002.
http://www.gamasutra.com/resource_guide/20020916/klug_01.htm.
292 Jesper Juul, A Clash between Game and Narrative: A Thesis on Computer
Games and Interactive Fiction. Institute of Nordic Language and Literature,
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 797
computer games in general293, concludes that the two are in
conflict and that “it is the strength of the computer game that it
doesn’t tell stories.”
The major work on literary theory as applied to virtual worlds is
Espen Aarseth’s Cybertext294. Although his book covers a wide
range of what Aarseth calls ergodic literature295, the author is
himself a former player of TinyMUD (the original, rather than
the codebase class) and he devotes a chapter to the subject of
virtual worlds. Ergodic literature is not so much text as a
machine that generates expressions of text, and therefore
virtual worlds are extreme examples of the concept in action.
Although cautioning against romanticizing the reading and
writing processes of virtual worlds, Aarseth is upbeat about
their prospects as a meaningful mode of literary
communication.
Aarseth’s and others’ views are taken to task296 by Julian
Kücklich, who sees a number of problems with the application of
literary terminology to virtual worlds (and, from the examples
he gives, he has a point, too). His solution is to view virtual
worlds as a deconstructive process, where people discover
meaning only by taking it apart. It’s possible that both he and
University of Copenhagen, 1999.
http://www.jesperjuul.dk/thesis/AClashBetweenGameAndNarrative.pdf.
293 Virtual worlds get a short mention because their persistence makes for
further problems with narrative.
294 Espen J. Aarseth, Cybertext: Perspectives on Ergodic Literature. Baltimore
and London, The John Hopkins University Press, 1997.
295 This is a term borrowed from Physics, which in this context means that
non-trivial effort is required by the reader to traverse the text, unlike the
situation with normal “reading.”
296 Julian Küchlich, In Search of the Lost Text: Literary Theory and Computer
Games. Game Culture, March 2001. http://www.gameculture.com/articles/insearch.html.
798 Chapter 6
Aarseth are right, however, and that it depends on the players
as to which applies297
.
Some other papers concerning literature and virtual worlds:
• Jeffery Young, 1994298. Young evangelizes on behalf of virtual
worlds as places where human beings can express
themselves. He wants virtual worlds to be studied for their
speech and for their writing, and with controlled enthusiasm
explains exactly why. That this paper seems a little dated
now is perhaps because Young succeeded in his aims.
• Mikael Cardell, 1994299. In this early attempt to look at virtual
worlds from the point of view of literary theory, Cardell
compares the processes involved in the construction of
virtual worlds with those of a literary world (that of Lord of
the Rings) and concludes that they are fundamentally the
same. Nevertheless, although virtual worlds are used as
locations for storytelling—quests in particular—he sees
little evidence of contextual role-playing in most of them
except for social experimentation (for example, cross-gender
play).
• Phil Goetz, 1994300. This is a classic article that shows how
virtual worlds can be used for highly literate role-play.
Although the sample transcripts it presents suffer from
297 No, I’m not proposing a player types model for “reading” virtual worlds,
here….
298 Jeffery R. Young, Textuality in Cyberspace: MUDs and Written Experience.
1994. ftp://sunsite.unc.
edu/pub/academic/communications/papers/muds/Textuality-in-Cyberspace.
299 Mikael Cardell, Computers, Storytelling and World Creation: The Reader as
Writer in Multi-Participant Interactive Fiction. Department of Language and
Literature, Linköping University, 1994.
http://www.hack.org/~mc/writings/world2.txt.
300 Phil Goetz, Literary Role-Play in Cyberspace. Andrew Rilstone (editor),
Interactive Fantasy 4. London, Hogshead Publishing, 1995.
http://www.mud.co.uk/richard/ifan295.htm.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 799
dead-on-the-page syndrome, nevertheless Goetz makes his
point. If you want to know what literary role-play is like in
practice, this is where to find out.
• Catherine Wylie, 1999301. In this paper, Wylie argues that
virtual worlds are the natural successors of the ancient
“memory theatre” approach to storytelling, where stories
were told aloud rather than being written down. Such
stories evolved in the telling, as the storyteller and listeners
engaged in a dialogue. She sees virtual worlds as offering the
same opportunity for their communities to direct the moral
tide, which are unavailable in other common examples of
post-modernism in action.
• Torill Mortensen, 2002302. Mortensen’s concern is that
literary theorists have difficulty understanding virtual
worlds because they are removed from them; they speak
with experience of literature, but not of virtual worlds. She
suggests that instead of looking at virtual worlds remotely,
researchers should roll up their sleeves and actually play
them303. Only through such ethnography-like fieldwork can
anyone hope to understand what it really means to be a
“manipulating reader.” Interestingly, her own experience of
this results in an explanation that reads very much like the
hero’s journey.
Role-Playing Game Theory
Role-playing gamers have theories of role-play. Actors have
theories of role-play too, of course, but players of role-playing
games (RPGs) do not consider these to be appropriate to their
301 Catherine Wylie, MUDs, Memories and Morals: A Revisioning of Primary
Orality and Late Literacy. Denver University, 1999.
302 Torill Mortensen, Playing with Players: Potential Methodologies for MUDs.
Game Studies Vol. 2 (1), July 2002.
http://www.gamestudies.org/0102/mortensen/.
303 A tiny minority of literary theorists do have meaningful experience of
virtual worlds, of course, Aarseth being the most notable example.
800 Chapter 6
particular circumstances. Instead, they’ve developed their own
theories, the origins of which lie in the discussions of roleplaying that occur on the Usenet group rec.games.frp.advocacy.
Most of this work was done in the context of human-moderated
games, whether face-to-face or live action; nevertheless, much
of it can be applied to virtual worlds (and to single-player
computer role-playing games, come to that).
There are two key aspects to the theories: mode and stance.
Mode is the style of play that players adopt, and concerns the
reason that they participate in role-playing games. The usual
answer they give—“to have fun”—is the same that players of
virtual worlds reply. The RPG categorization of the answers,
however, is different to the one I derived for virtual world player
types. In fact, there are two main approaches: The GDS and GNS
models, named after the initial letters of their categories
(Gamist, Dramatist, Simulationist, and Gamism, Narrativism,
Simulationism). GDS came first, and is described in the
rec.games.frp.advocacy FAQ304
. GNS is a refinement by Ron
Edwards305
.
I’ll outline GNS here:
• Game mode. This concerns competition between players,
rather than their characters. Players create victory/loss
conditions for themselves that are reflected in their
playing strategies.
• Narrative mode. Here, the idea is the creation of a story
with a recognizable theme. Characters are protagonists,
304 John H. Kim, The rec.games.frp.advocacy FAQ.
http://www.darkshire.org/~jhkim/rpg/styles/ faq_v1/faq1.art.
305 Ron Edwards, GNS and Other Matters of Role-Playing Theory. Adept Press,
2001. http://www. indie-rpgs.com/articles/1/.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 801
and the referee provides the narrative cloth from which
the players cut the story. The GDS model has drama
mode here instead.
• Simulation mode. This style of play focuses on
exploration—of the character, setting, situation,
atmosphere, and/or game mechanics. Internal logic and
consistency of experience are regarded as paramount.
These playing styles are specific to individuals. The same game
may have players in different modes, and conflicts will therefore
occasionally arise (for example, game mode players might hire a
half-orc tracker when their characters are all elves, whereas
simulation mode players might object that their characters
“wouldn’t do that”).
From a virtual world designer’s point of view, it’s interesting to
compare these modes to the player types model (RPG theorists
have done the reverse, too). There are some definite similarities:
Game mode means achievers; simulation mode means
explorers. Narrative mode could fit either socializers or killers,
but serves neither very well. Why is this?
The root of the disparity is that in a virtual world, different
characters do different things at the same time; in a humanmoderated role-playing set-up, they don’t. Human beings can’t
listen to instructions in parallel and react to each instantly;
computers can, so they facilitate the person-to-person action
and interaction that killers and socializers seek. Conversely,
computers cannot adapt to unexpected actions to keep a series
of planned events on track; humans can, therefore they can
sustain a narrative.
In terms of mode, RPG theory has some relevance to virtual
worlds; where it doesn’t apply, its limitations are clearly defined.
802 Chapter 6
The second characteristic of role-playing theory, stance,
concerns how individuals decide what to do in response to a
role-playing event. There are four basic stances, although only
the first three typically apply:
• Actor stance. Players decide what their characters do
based solely on the knowledge that their characters have.
I know there’s a dragon behind the door because I saw
the referee’s notes, but my character doesn’t: My
character goes through the door.
• Author stance. Players use their own priorities to
determine what their character does, then
retroactively306 provide a rationale for their character to
act that way. If we found the dragon this early, the
gaming session would end too soon; the fact that my
character is greedy enables me to send him back to look
at some other doors he walked past, “before I get too far
away.”
• Director stance. The player determines their character’s
actions with no reference to that character’s knowledge
or abilities. My character pulls out their secret, dragonslaying sword and goes through the door.
• Audience stance. Events unfold, my character merely
watches. This doesn’t apply in a role-playing situation: If
I’m called on by the referee to act, my character must
act—even if that means explicitly “doing nothing.” It can
apply in virtual worlds in certain stylized situations (one
of which is described in the section on drama theory that
follows).
The director stance is rare among players of RPGs. It may be
more common in virtual worlds where players have build
privileges, but it’s impossible in those where they don’t. The
306 If this second step is not taken, the result is called Pawn stance.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 803
important stances are the first two, which equate to incharacter (IC) and out-of-character (OOC) action. Edwards
suggests that stances may be linked to the concept of
immersion, too, which seems reasonable.
I’ve mentioned GDS and GNS here, but they aren’t the only
models in RPG Theory. Ever since the appearance of GDS,
people have been creating their own player type models, almost
invariably working to a threefold template. Brian Gleichman
argues307 that this archetype has become so ingrained that
people don’t consider there may be better ways of doing things.
It occurs to me that there may be a similar problem in virtual
worlds following on from my own four-fold player types model.
Drama Theory
There are two standard works that look at virtual worlds from
the perspective of drama theory: Brenda Laurel’s Computers as
Theatre308 and Janet Murray’s Hamlet on the Holodeck309
.
Laurel’s big idea is that computers are a medium, rather than a
tool. She sees drama as a conceptualizing theory that should be
applied for designing engaging human/ computer activities, its
advantages over narrative being its emphasis on enactment—
people perform. She argues that by arranging the action (in any
software engineering project) about the interface, the rest of the
design falls into place. When the interface is the human
imagination, the possibilities are limitless.
307 Brian Gleichman, ThreeFold Debates. 2001.
http://home.attbi.com/~b.gleichman/Theory/ Threefold/Main.htm.
308 Brenda Laurel, Computers as Theatre. Menlo Park CA, Addison-Wesley,
1991.
309 Janet H. Murray, Hamlet on the Holodeck: The Future of Narrative in
Cyberspace. New York, Free Press, 1997.
804 Chapter 6
This interest in interface leads Laurel naturally to virtual reality,
which she regards with great enthusiasm. It is primarily for this
reason that her work is often quoted with reference to virtual
worlds, although it’s something of a distraction in today’s posthype VR climate. More relevant is her general belief that the
relationship between human and computer should be about
creating imaginary worlds that have a special relationship to
the real one310
.
Laurel’s approach focuses on the players, as both performers
and (when the computer acts) audience. Murray, on the other
hand, focuses on the work; for her, this is the performance that
results from interaction between the players. She does mean
players (rather than characters), too: Characters are like the
masks of classical Greek drama, a device that by delimiting
actor and role liberates the actor to become their role. Although
it’s tempting to think of the virtual world itself as the theatre in
which the roles are played out, this is not Murray’s approach311;
rather, she sees it as a narrator, telling the story that unfolds as
the players perform. Her vision is essentially constructivist:
Players gain by building the context through their actions—
they define the world.
Thus, she conceives of virtual worlds as being the collaborations
of virtuosi, rather than the works of single geniuses: commedia
dell’arte as opposed to Shakespeare. They follow a folk-story
model, where the story form is passed down through
succeeding generations and repurposed by each for their own
needs; the high culture model, by comparison, fixes the work
310 Laurel’s direct references to virtual worlds mainly concern Habitat, which
given when she was writing is not entirely surprising. She is mainly
addressing software engineers, not virtual world designers; virtual worlds
are an illustrative example for her.
311 Neither is it Laurel’s, of course, as for her the computer is a medium, not a
stage.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 805
and passes it down verbatim. This means that although the
resulting stories may look derivative to the outsider, they can be
intensely meaningful to the performers. Hopefully, as narrative
formulae are developed, understanding the stories and creating
more advanced ones will become easier.
Murray’s approach is far more story-oriented than Laurel’s, but
she still basically regards computers as a medium. She identifies
three important properties of this medium, which by now
should be familiar to virtual world designers:
• Immersion. How it helps people construct, rather than
merely suspend, belief.
• Agency. How it allows users to do things that affect what is
being represented.
• Transformation. How the medium can change to enhance
immersion and agency.
Although much of what Murray says is relevant to the design of
virtual worlds, its applicability is limited by the fact that (from
our point of view) she’s looking in the wrong place. In virtual
worlds, players don’t perform the work, they are the work. The
closure that effectively ends a performance occurs when its
structure is understood; for players, that’s the key part of their
hero’s journey.
Also, purely from a designer’s perspective, much of what goes
on in virtual worlds occurs because of the way the world is
structured. The virtual world itself may be created by a
presiding genius who provides a context that allows the players
to excel beyond what they would have done otherwise. Virtual
world designers can certainly count such geniuses among their
number; Raph Koster is the most obvious example.
Virtual worlds are not narrative components, they’re places. As
places, they can be venues for genuine performance without
806 Chapter 6
reference to the art of their creation—“art within art,” in other
words. There are genuine virtual theatre companies who act out
pieces of interactive drama within virtual worlds to audiences.
The most famous of these, the Plaintext Players312, have been
performing regularly since 1994. They don’t work to a formal
script: They are provided by the director with a basic
scenario313, and improvise to fulfill it.
Although the Plaintext Players often record (that is, log) their
performances, it takes an experienced reader of transcripts to
get any sense of the power and inventiveness of the piece. It is
unlikely that someone who is not accustomed to reading log
files would find them inspiring, even if they were replayed in
real time. Basically, you have to be there, live, witnessing the
performance taking place in the context of your own ability to
influence it, in order to appreciate it314. This is despite the fact
that there is some heavyweight drama theory behind them315
.
Part of the reason for this is that the Plaintext Players work
exclusively in textual worlds. Graphical worlds are more
accessible in this regard, and unsurprisingly many players do
record activities in these worlds for later consumption316. Most
of these recordings are of a “home video” nature, with subject
matter concerning things like weddings, fights, and bloopers.
Others, though, are parodies; some are actual scripted dramas.
312 http://yin.arts.uci.edu/~players/
313 The scenario is the same for every actor; it is interesting to speculate what
would happen if actors were each given different scenarios for the same
performance.
314 I should mention here that I haven’t seen the Plaintext Players in action
myself, but having read thousands of logs in my time I can look at their
transcripts and gain some sense of what they’re about.
315 Antoinette LaFarge, A World Exhilarating and Wrong: Theatrical
Improvisation on the Internet. Leonardo
Vol 28 (5), 1995. http://yin.arts.uci.edu/~players/leo/leo95.html.
316 For examples, see http://camelotvault.ign.com/videos/.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 807
At the moment, these graphical pieces are limited by the fact
that the audience cannot enter the drama either actively (by
moving the camera wherever they want) or passively (having a
director choose the camera angles). They are recordings of
events from a single perspective; they only show what is on the
recording player’s screen at the time. In theory, since the data
exists anyway, it should be possible for members of the
audience to change the camera angle themselves, switching
points of view between participants, and getting in among the
action. It should also be possible for a director to edit a cohesive
and compelling narrative from the unlimited camera recordings
that could be made available to them. All it would take would be
for the graphical client to be able to record the incoming data
stream and play it back. As a bonus, the amount of data needed
to store a performance would be low compared with what is
needed to store it frame-by-frame; feature-length events would
be possible, instead of the five-minute shorts we have today. In
practice, though, this is much harder than it sounds due to
synchronization and cross-patch compatibility issues.
Some other papers concerning drama theory and virtual worlds
are:
• Howard Rheingold, 1991317. Chapter 13 of this well-known
book describes drama in virtual worlds as envisaged in the
VR-optimistic days of the early 1990s. Although many of the
predictions related may in time come true, if they do it will
be because of the worlds, not the interface.
• Jen Clodius, 1996318. Here, Clodius describes the use of
dramatic performance to give in-world context to a meta317 Howard Rheingold, Virtual Reality. London, Secker & Warburg, 1991.
318 Jennifer A. Clodius, Shar’s Return: Performance as Gift.
http://dragonmud.org/people/jen/ shar.html.
808 Chapter 6
world event (the return of a former player to an
administrative position). She characterizes performance in
virtual worlds as a form of spontaneous communication,
people playing off each other to express and convey ideas.
The actual event she describes used a framework script
(which is presented), enhanced by improvisation during its
execution to account for the reactions of the audience.
• Susan Warshauer, 1994319. Warshauer has the refreshing idea
of examining (through interviews) the aesthetic approaches
of two different virtual designers, to ascertain what they
believed was important to virtual world design (simulation
of reality, quality of room descriptions, and so on). Focusing
on their attitudes to role-playing, she constructs a “dialectic
of interacting”320 that describes the motion that players
experience between IC and OOC states. This is strongly
related to the stances of RPG theory and the concept of
immersion.
• Shannon Appelcline, 2001321. In this experiment, Appelcline
wrote his regular Skotos column in screenplay format to
demonstrate the problems that arise when material created
for one medium is presented using another. Things work in
different ways in different media, and not all transfer; some
aesthetics intersect, but some don’t. You always need to
adapt a work of art for a different medium, and therefore
you always have to adapt your understanding of works of art
319 Susan Warshauer, Aesthetic Approaches to the Design and Study of MUDs
(Multi-User Domains) in English and Performance Studies: Interface, Realism and
the Dialectic of Interacting. Computer Writing, Rhetoric and Literature Vol. 1 (1),
Spring 1994. http://www.cwrl.utexas.edu/cwrl/v1n1/article3/ mudmain.html.
320 Given that it has three points—self, character, actor—perhaps “trialectic”
would be a better word.
321 Shannon Appelcline, Why Marrach Isn’t the Movies. Skotos, 2001.
http://www.skotos.net/articles/TTnT_31.html
http://www.skotos.net/articles/TTnT_36.html
http://www.skotos.net/articles/TTnT_40.html
http://www.skotos.net/articles/TTnT_41.html
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 809
for different media. In particular, models of narrative and
performance appropriate for the silver screen are not
necessarily appropriate for virtual worlds.
This depiction of virtual worlds as a medium links suspiciously
neatly to the next topic.
Computer-Mediated Communication
Communications studies is a broad field, concerning the ways
by which human beings convey information and emotion to one
another. Inter-disciplinary almost by definition, it attracts
mainly sociologists, sociolinguists and psychologists.
Computer-mediated communication (CMC) is a subfield that
addresses human communication through the medium of the
computer. It specializes in email, Instant Messenger, Usenet,
IRC, and virtual worlds (particularly textual ones, and very
particularly MOOs). To CMC specialists, virtual worlds are
simply one of many forms of CMC: They are important because
they are media, not because they are places.
The main concerns researchers have about CMC are322:
• The absence of social context cues (for example, body
language, facial expressions)
• The recordability of conversation
• The rate of information exchange
• The level of formality
• The effects of anonymity
This means that CMC has lots to say about virtual worlds, but
usually in the context of some wider theory, rarely addressing
322 This list comes from Rick Dietrich, Jill Grear, and Amber Ruth, How Real Is
Communication in the Virtual World of Cyberspace?
http://www.units.muohio.edu/psybersite/cyberspace/cmcreal/.
810 Chapter 6
what virtual world researchers might like to think of as the
unique circumstances that pertain in their subject matter323
.
For this reason, it’s actually quite hard to track down CMC
writings specific to virtual worlds that aren’t using them to
make some more general point324. That said, CMC researchers
are often interested in the same things as virtual world
researchers (albeit for different reasons), and much CMC work
touches on topics I have already mentioned in this chapter;
indeed, some of the works I’ve cited were published under the
CMC banner.
I have, however, refrained from using all CMC papers in this
way, for two reasons: Firstly, to bring home to virtual world
designers that CMC is an area they should be looking at;
secondly, because some of the points of interest concern CMC
itself.
So here are some CMC papers that might interest you:
• Elizabeth Reid, 1995325. Reid looks at the different forms of
communication available in virtual worlds, and the social
experiences that result from them. She asserts that virtual
worlds are new realities that exist in the shared
imaginations of the players. The CMC spin is that this is
made possible by the way the server actualizes players’
commands into forms that can be communicated; it enables
language to substitute for nonverbal cues, and the
323 Particularly disappointing is the way that textual worlds are routinely
mentioned in the same breath as IRC.
324 It’s even harder when you do find a paper but it’s one of a dozen collected
in a single volume and you have to buy the lot to get it.
325 Elizabeth Reid, Virtual Worlds: Culture and Imagination. Stephen G. Jones
(editor), Cybersociety: Computer-Mediated Communication and Community.
Thousand Oaks CA, SAGE Publications Inc., 1995.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 811
specialized meanings it employs to do so bind players into a
common culture326
.
• Don Langham, 1994327. CMC has been criticized for causing
people to speak before they have had time to reflect,
encouraging them to think less deeply. Langham defends
CMC from this by likening it to Plato’s description of
Socrates objecting to writing because it disrupts oral
society. In the same way that Socrates felt writing corrupted
the individual’s relationship to society, CMC objectors feel
that it destroys the individual’s relationship to their self.
Langham, however, sees virtual worlds as coming round full
circle, re-introducing orality to society through the written
word. Michael Docherty, 1994328, criticizes Langham’s
approach (if not his conclusions) on the grounds that the
supposedly anti-CMC camp are actually merely speculating
about what might happen, rather than predicting what will.
Writing began as a tool, but literature made it a realm; CMC
is currently a tool, but only future generations will know
what realm it becomes.
• Nancy Deuel, 1996329. This paper discusses virtual sex, mainly
in context of writings by other people on the subject; it is
326 Although this is a common hypothesis among CMC researchers, it’s
interesting to note that it doesn’t apply to the same extent in graphical
worlds. This occurs time and time again in CMC research: The explanations
proposed concerning phenomena in textual worlds do not account for why
the same phenomena apparently arise in far less textually oriented graphical
worlds.
327 Don Langham, The Common Place MOO: Orality and Literacy in Virtual
Reality. Computer-Mediated Communication Magazine Vol. 1 (3), July 1994.
http://www.december.com/cmc/mag/1994/jul/moo.html.
328 Michael E. Docherty Jr., MOO as Tool, MOO as Realm: A Response to Don
Langham. Computer-Mediated Communication Magazine Vol. 1 (7), November
1994. http://www.december.com/cmc/mag/1994/nov/moo.html.
329 Nancy R. Deuel, Our Passionate Response to Virtual Reality. Susan C.
Herring (editor) Computer-Mediated Communication: Linguistic, Social and
Cross-Cultural Perspectives. Philadelphia, John Benjamins North America,
1996.
812 Chapter 6
therefore a good starting point for further investigation into
how CMC regards virtual sex. Deuel depicts it as a
phenomenon of social interaction; while not tangibly
productive, participants insist it contributes to their
personal development and exploration. To this extent, it is a
form of personal expression that is inevitable no matter
what wider society may prefer.
• John Ryan, 1995330. Ryan looks at why people choose to
communicate via virtual worlds, rather than through some
other medium. He employs a uses and gratifications model;
these are popular in CMC, and involve using statistics to find
categories of common behaviors. He proceeded by
interviewing 222 old-time LambdaMOO players using a fixed
set of questions, then analyzing the results. He successfully
identifies several reasons why people choose to continue
playing LambdaMOO when they could easily have been
doing something else. An interesting conclusion (from the
point of view of this book) is that these long-term players
seemed to have become more “themselves” as a result of
their LambdaMOO experiences.
• Sonja Utz, 2000331. Utz examines how friendships develop in
virtual worlds, which she sees as a highly developed form of
CMC. She sets out to verify a number of commonly held
hypotheses concerning: Virtual-world players; the way they
develop friendships; the role that the communication forms
available to them play in this. She produced a questionnaire
that was answered by 103 players of German textual worlds.
Although she does reach some interesting conclusions
concerning her primary goals, of particular interest to
330 John Ryan, A Uses and Gratifications Study on the Internet Social Interaction
Site LambdaMOO: Talking with “Dinos.” Ball State University, 1995.
http://www.zacha.net/articles/ryan.html.
331 Sonja Utz, Social Information Processing in MUDs: The Development of
Friendships in Virtual Worlds. Journal of Online Behavior Vol. 1 (1), 2000.
http://www.behavior.net/JOB/v1n1/utz.html.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 813
readers of this book is how a cluster analysis of respondents’
answers found four different player types that bear some
similarity to…well, read it yourself.
• Tari Fanderclai, 1995332. This is only a short paper, but it is
notable for alerting the possibilities of educational virtual
worlds to a wider audience. Because CMC is
interdisciplinary, people from other disciplines get to hear
about things they might otherwise not.
Post-Modernism
Post-modernists view virtual worlds as examples of postmodernism in action. Then again, they view everything like
that, so virtual worlds aren’t necessarily particularly special in
this regard. What makes them interesting to post-modernists
(in the sense that anything at all is interesting to them) is that
they illustrate certain post-modernist concepts more clearly
than usual, and thus make good examples when explaining
postmodernism to people who don’t get it.
Post-modernism333 only really arrived in the mid-1980s. As an
intellectual movement, it has things to say about a very wide
range of topics. Fundamentally, though, it’s about the meaning
of meaning (or, rather, the lack of meaning of meaning). Human
beings are entirely subjective; all objectivity is therefore
illusory. Meaning is constructed from individually meaningless
signs and symbols; the truth is hidden behind the image, but the
truth itself is an image. Ultimately, human beings are
constructs created by themselves; deconstruct them, and at best
all you find is another layer to deconstruct.
332 Tari Lin Fanderclai, MUDs in Education: New Environments, New
Pedagogies. Computer-Mediated Communication Magazine Vol. 2 (1), January
1995.
333 Many people prefer “postmodern” to “post-modern,” but who gives a
damn?
814 Chapter 6
As I’ve just explained it (which is very much only a brief
summary), post-modernism is basically a “so what?” subject. It’s
full of theory, the theory seems to apply, but it also undermines
itself in a recursive fashion. In the end, you may understand it
but so what? This is what: It enables people to look at things in a
non-traditional manner, giving greater insight into what things
mean and why they mean it. It’s incredibly easy to overdo,
though.
Insofar as virtual worlds are concerned, their importance to
post-modernism is that they clearly demonstrate two of its
tenets (both due to Jean Baudrillard334). The first of these is the
individual as a simulacrum of the self: In virtual worlds, with
their lack of physicality, how could the individual be anything
else? The second is the concept of the hyperreal, where
representation becomes simulation (Reality as a simulation of
itself); virtual worlds, being simulations of reality as people both
understand and desire it to be, can seem to them to be more real
than reality335
.
It’s unsurprising, therefore, that there is a virtual world set up
specifically to exemplify these theories in action: PMC2336
,
sponsored by the journal Postmodern Culture337
. Perhaps even
334 Jean Baudrillard, Simulacra and Simulations.
http://www.stanford.edu/dept/HPS/Baudrillard/Baudrillard_Simulacra.html.
Baudrillard developed both concepts over time in several essays. This one
has the advantage (from the point of view of this book) of being short and
available online in English.
335 A philosopher’s view of whether virtual worlds are themselves real or
illusory is presented in Wesley E. Cooper, Virtual Reality and the Metaphysics
of Self, Community and Nature. International Journal of Applied Philosophy Vol. 9
(2), 1995.
336 PMC2 is the second iteration of the original PMC-MOO.
http://www.iath.virginia.edu/pmc/ pmc-moo.html.
337 http://www.iath.virginia.edu/pmc/
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 815
less unsurprising is that many of the post-modern writings
about virtual worlds concern this particular virtual world. Well,
it makes a change from LambdaMOO.
Some papers (with great titles) that refer to virtual worlds as
post-modernist icons are
• Mark Nunes, 1995338. This is a good statement of the postmodern line regarding virtual worlds, making useful
reference to the “modern” that post-modern is “post.” Nunes
sees virtual worlds as places that defy the unavoidability of
modernist futures, allowing people to play with the
assumptions that modernity bequeathed us concerning
community, information, liberation, and self. They offer the
chance to thwart inevitability by allowing us to redefine and
rewrite whatever we choose.
• Jeffrey Fisher, 1997339. Fisher takes viewpoint that cyberspace
is not the equivalent of medieval paradise that many people
seemed to think it was (and he wrote this before The Pearly
Gates of Cyberspace was published). Virtual worlds allow
individuals to re-create themselves and to archive that recreation340; thus, they can transform people. Virtual worlds
are not universally available to everyone, though, nor can
they ever be: Although they can transform people, they can’t
transform everyone because not everyone has (nor ever will
338 Mark Nunes, Baudrillard in Cyberspace: Internet, Virtuality and
Postmodernity. Style Vol. 29, 1995.
http://www.dc.peachnet.edu/~mnunes/jbnet.html.
339 Jeffrey Fisher, The Postmodern Paradiso: Dante, Cyberpunk and the
Technosophy of Cyberspace. David Porter (editor), Internet Culture. New York,
Routledge, 1997
340 I personally feel that that this is more like a test/edit cycle that brings the
archived self closer to the “real” self, at least to the degree where the two are
isomorphic.
816 Chapter 6
have) access to them. There are thus real social costs to a
virtual world existence.
• Troy Whitlock, 1994341. A concerted and deliberate example of
post-modernism disappearing up its own backside. Whitlock
set up a player class, “terrorist,” in the dying days of PMCMOO. Every worst post-modernist nightmare ensued as the
consequences of post-modernist theories came back to bite
the theorists—as a legitimate example of their theories in
action. Deconstructivists were deconstructed; self-reference
was used as a weapon against self-reference. Amusing
though this is, it makes many serious points in the detail. A
splendid illustration of how Reality always wins, even
against hyperreality.
• Chip Morningstar, 1993342. This is one of my favorite papers
related to virtual worlds, written by a pioneer of the subject.
It’s a wonderful cutting-through of academic weed to find
the ideas that flower at the center of post-modernism. Chip
takes a marvelous, pragmatic approach, pointing out what’s
bogus about post-modernism as it is applied to virtual
worlds (and everything else), and what’s valuable (which
isn’t a lot, but neither is it nothing). It’s a magnificent dose of
real reality to counter the hyperreal reality of postmodernist thought. After reading this, you need never feel
daunted by anyone who renormalizes the phenomenology of
narrative space through intersubjective cognitive strategy
again.
341 Troy Whitlock, Fuck Art, Let’s Kill: Towards a Post Modern Community. 1994.
http://www.evolutionzone.com/kulturezone/futurec/articles/Moo.Terrorism.
342 Chip Morningstar, How to Deconstruct Almost Anything: My Postmodern
Adventure. 1993.
http://www.ibiblio.org/pub/academic/communications/papers/habitat/
deconstr.rtf.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 817
Virtual Worlds as Tools
The third way that virtual worlds are viewed by researchers is
as tools. In this situation, virtual worlds are interesting purely
because of what they can be used for, rather than for any
intellectual merit of their own. This isn’t to say that researchers
in these areas disparage virtual worlds, it’s just that their focus
is different. If such an attitude were a crime, it’s one that virtual
world designers would themselves be guilty of. They rely on
computer scientists for the hardware and software expertise
they need, but are only really interested in what this allows
them to do design-wise (or, more likely, prohibits them from
doing); computer science provides the tools they need, but is
only a curiosity beyond that.
Some of the fields that use virtual worlds as tools do so because
they can derive new techniques in their own fields that way.
Virtual worlds can therefore expect to be the immediate
beneficiaries of such techniques. Incredibly tempting though it
is to look at what these fields promise for virtual worlds, this is
not the book where it’s going to happen. My mission here is to
promote virtual world design as a subject worthy of serious
attention; although the general development of virtual worlds
may benefit from an examination of worlds-as-tools research (I
certainly hope it does), these don’t actually validate virtual
worlds as a worthy pursuit in themselves. Thus, I shall restrict
myself to giving a very limited overview of the fields concerned
as they impact on virtual world design; designers who are
sufficiently enthused can hit a few search engines if they want
to find out more.
818 Chapter 6
Computer Science
I re-read the previous paragraph immediately after having
written four pages about computer science and virtual world
design. I bit the bullet and cut them.
Many virtual world designers343 have a soft spot for computer
science because their own backgrounds are in this area.
However, the fact is that computer scientists in general are not
tremendously interested in virtual worlds except when they’re
working on them344, in which case they have a direct
relationship with the designers anyway. Designers who are
former programmers can call on their own experience, of
course: Program design methodologies can certainly help in the
process of virtual-world design, and systems analysis
techniques are invaluable, too. The greatest benefit of computer
science training to designers, however, is perhaps the
understanding it gives of what can be programmed (and how
long it will—or might—take).
When it comes to using virtual worlds as a research application,
though, computer science’s interest is very limited. There are
some programming languages that have been designed to
support virtual worlds (most notably LogiMOO345), but other
than that, virtual worlds are used either to show off some
object-modeling system’s capabilities or to explore distributed
processing/programming ideas. Both of these are likely to have
an eventual impact on virtual world design, but only through
343 Myself included.
344 Or when they’re playing in them, in which case they may well want to
work on one of their own.
345 Paul Tarau, Koen De Bosschere, Veronica Dahl and Stephen Rochefort,
LogiMOO: An Extensible Multi-User Virtual World with Natural Language
Control. Journal of Logic Programming Vol. 38, 1999.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 819
the additional weaponry they provide for the programmers who
implement virtual worlds.
So, although there are many computer science papers I’d like to
tell you about here, I have to concede that basically I only want
to do so because that’s my background, not because there’s
anything hugely relevant to virtual world design there.
Artificial Intelligence
I also have a background in artificial intelligence (AI). I did my
BSc in computer science but my Ph.D. was in AI. Why? Because
AI is highly relevant to virtual worlds.
The reason AI is relevant is because of mobiles. Okay, well there
are other reasons, too—object representation, pattern
recognition, route-finding, parsing, and so on—but mobiles
were why I went for it. Virtual worlds are places, but (except for
heavy role-playing or educational worlds) they’re places that are
better for having denizens. The virtual world designer has to
create not only the environment, but also the occupants of that
environment. This is where AI comes in.
Next to me as I write this is a stack of 26 AI research papers,
every one of which I’d love to write about here. These represent
perhaps 40% of the AI-and-virtual-worlds papers in my
collection—the ones I pared it down to. Unfortunately for me,
but perhaps fortunately for you, I’m only giving an overview
here. So, here it is.
As far as virtual worlds are concerned, AI is all about agents.
Agents are what AI people call independent entities capable of
action (they also call them actors). In virtual worlds, we call
them mobiles, NPCs, and, if they’re not integrated into the
virtual world itself, bots.
820 Chapter 6
Mobiles don’t have to be clever. You can implement wind as a
mobile. Bots don’t have to be clever either, but there’s not a lot
of point to writing them if they’re not. AI researchers like
virtual worlds because they’re shared, complex environments
that human beings and AI programs can interact with on equal
terms; they therefore use them for bots (although they might
actually implement them as mobiles; go figure).
Bot research integrates many aspects of AI. Bots need (among
other things) natural language understanding, planning,
knowledge representation, learning, plan recognition, and the
ability to model their own thought processes. Some of them are
created with particular applications in mind (interactive drama
or storytelling, for example), and there is an emphasis on
making them “believable” (for the benefit of humans), but the
great thing about AI is that bots are interesting purely for their
own sake. They don’t have to show off any theory: They’re AI in
action.
From the point of view of virtual world design, AI promises
great things. If virtual worlds could be populated by intelligent
NPCs, all manner of doors would open. Examples: Quest
generation becomes contextual; reputation becomes intangible
but works better; the economy behaves like it should; PC clans
can’t dominate politics. Worlds will seem—will be—so much
more alive.
I could go on and on about this, but restraint has prevailed. To
find out more:
• Read Andrew Leonard’s book. Bots346
.
346 Andrew Leonard, Bots: The Origin of New Species. San Francisco,
HardWired, 1997.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 821
• See Leonard Foner’s paper347 about the famous bot Julia.
• Consider the Skotos348 approach, which comes at bots from a
different angle.
• The American Association for Artificial Intelligence349 has
been sponsoring yearly symposia on the subject of AI and
Interactive Entertainment.
Oh, I would like to add one more thing….
Don’t try to make your virtual world itself be intelligent. Don’t
make it spawn creatures that are appropriate to the skills of the
players who are about to try kill them; don’t make mobiles in
combat act clever against clever opponents and stupid against
stupid ones; don’t make the treasure that people find adapt to
whoever finds it. This will not only be perceived by the players
as unfair and frustrating, but it will seem to mock them. A
constant challenge is constantly beatable and constantly
patronizing.
Education
I had 26 AI papers I would, given a free rein, have liked to have
discussed here. I have 37 such education papers. Yes, I have a
background in teaching, too.
Computer games and education have an uneasy relationship.
Computer games are fun, education isn’t. Educationalists figure
that by marrying the two, education can be made fun;
unfortunately, all too often computer games are made unfun
347 Leonard N. Foner, Entertaining Agents: A Sociological Case Study. Montreal,
Proceedings International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence 1995.
http://foner.www.media.mit.edu/people/foner/Reports/IJCAI-95/Julia.txt.
348 Christopher Allen, The Skotos Cellular Automata Simulation System: A Tech
Summary.
http://www.kanga.nu/archives/MUD-Dev-L/2002Q2/msg00521.php.
349 http://www.aaai.org
822 Chapter 6
instead. It is this precedent that puts off many game-style
virtual world designers from looking at educationalist virtual
worlds. This is something of a shame, because there is a lot of
very interesting work going on in the area. Books could be
written about virtual worlds in education; indeed, books have
been written about them350
.
Virtual worlds offer educators the following features:
• They are collaborative.
• They are motivational.
• They involve language use.
• Children find it easier to express themselves in them.
• They are a change from classroom learning.
• They can be used remotely.
• The interface is easy to learn.
• Disruptive behavior is easier to deal with.
Almost all educational virtual worlds are textual, using mainly
TinyMUD-heritage codebases. MUSHes and MOOs are favored
because of their flexibility; text is favored because it is
inexpensive. That said, there may also be educational reasons
for using text over graphics, the first 3D graphical educational
worlds having performed less well pedagogically than hoped351
.
The use of virtual worlds for educational purposes has a long
history. The first such world, Stan Lim and Barry Kort’s
350 Try this one, a collection of papers edited by the founders of LinguaMOO.
Cynthia Haynes and Jan Rune Holmevik (editors), High Wired: On the Design,
Use and Theory of Educational MOOs. Ann Arbor, University of Michigan
Press, 1998.
351 Jason Elliott, Lori Adams and Amy Bruckman, No Magic Bullet: 3D Video
Games in Education. Seattle, Proceedings International Conference on the
Learning Sciences, 2002. http://www.cc.gatech.edu/~asb/papers/aquamooseicls02.pdf.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 823
MicroMUSE352, was founded in 1990; Julie Falsetti and Eric
Schweitzer’s schMOOze University353 and Jeanne Butler
McWhorter’s Diversity University354 have been running classes
since 1994; Amy Bruckman’s MOOSE Crossing355 began in 1995.
Educational virtual worlds are used primarily used to teach:
• Second/foreign language use
• Simple programming skills
• Composition (that is, writing)
• Team skills
This is all very interesting, but as I’ve been at pains to point out
throughout this book educational virtual worlds share many
characteristics with social- and game-oriented ones. Why give
their use by educationalists any kind of special mention?
Well, it’s because all virtual world traditions have the same aim:
learning. With social- and game-oriented worlds, players learn
about themselves; with educational worlds, players learn
whatever they’re taught but also about themselves.
Educationalists know about teaching and learning; does it not
make sense, therefore, to look at how they design virtual worlds
and in-world courses for teaching purposes, to see if these ideas
can be applied to what virtual worlds are, at heart, all about—
the search for the self?
Two papers, two perspectives, one aim:
352 http://www.musenet.org/
353 http://schmooze.hunter.cuny.edu:8888/
354 http://www.du.org/. You can tell something on the Net is old when it has a
URL like that.
355 http://www.cc.gatech.edu/elc/moose-crossing/
824 Chapter 6
• Marina Bers, 2001356. The creation of a 3D virtual world with
the specific intention that it be used for identity
construction.
• Dianne Butler, 1999357. What players of a regular adventurestyle virtual world consider that they learn from it.
Law
Lawyers are almost all concerned only with real-life laws as they
apply to virtual worlds. They are overwhelmingly not interested
in the design of in-context legal systems for virtual worlds. Even
so, for this reason alone virtual world designers should listen to
what they have to say; there are also other reasons, however,
that we shall come to shortly.
Virtual worlds raise several issues for real-world law with which
legislators have yet to get to grips. These include
• Ownership of data. Can players sell characters and
property? Can the virtual world owner358? What are the
liabilities that the virtual world developer has in either
case? What would PD mean in such a world? Do players
of loss-making virtual worlds have any grounds for
complaint if the developer shuts it down?
• Ownership of intellectual property. Do players have rights
concerning anything they create in the virtual world?
Does it make a difference whether it’s in-context (they
356 Marina Umaschi Bers, Identity Construction Environments: Developing
Personal and Moral Values through the Design of a Virtual City. Journal of the
Learning Sciences Vol. 10 (4), 2001. http://www.tufts.edu/~mbers01/JLSBers.pdf.
357 Dianne P. Butler, MUDs as Social Learning Environments. 1999.
http://www.medievia.com/mudslinger/solpaper.html.
358 Ultima Online jumped the shark in September 2002 when the
announcement was made that players could buy advanced characters at
source instead of having to work their way up.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 825
made a picture from colored stones) or out-of-context
(they created a complex of rooms)? Can they claim usage
royalties? Can they insist their creation is removed? Is
joint ownership between player and developer a
solution? What if the virtual world uses a licensed
franchise?
• Employment law. When does what people do for fun
become work? Should volunteers be able to claim the
minimum wage?
• Governing law. If I as an Englishman interact improperly
with an American in a virtual world that has its server in
Canada, under which country’s laws can I be sued? How
are disputes in virtual worlds resolved359?
• Responsibility and liability. Are virtual world designers
responsible if their players become addicted? Can they be
held to account for real-world violence meted out for
virtual-world reasons? Are they liable for repetitive
strain injuries incurred by players performing activities
that the designer has encouraged?
The country where virtual worlds are taken most seriously by
the legal establishment is Korea. In 2002, the Ministry of
Culture and Tourism announced changes to its online game
rating system that effectively meant virtual worlds featuring
PKing could only be played by people aged 18 and over. NCSoft’s
shares fell dramatically with this news, as the realization that
Lineage could lose half its players sank into the minds of
investors.
The Korean government acted because of incidents of real-life
unrest that were apparently resulting from activities
359 For a discussion of this particular gray area, see Todd H. Flaming, The
Rules of Cyberspace: Informal Law in a New Jurisdiction. Illinois Bar Journal,
April 1997. http://www.sw.com/rulescyb.htm.
826 Chapter 6
undertaken in virtual worlds. Virtual worlds were associated
with reports of suicide, violence360, and prostitution (selling
real-life sex for in-world reward361). That their response was
something of a knee-jerk reaction is clear from the way that it
linked PKing to the intention of the PKer to steal virtual goods
from their victim (presumably as a means of disambiguating the
Counterstrike-like PKing of nonpersistent characters with the
Lineage-like PKing of persistent ones). Nevertheless, as virtual
worlds become more and more mainstream, it’s a sign of things
to come.
I did say that there were other reasons that virtual world
designers should look at what lawyers have to say apart from
the obvious one of being possibly bankrupted if they get things
wrong. These are those few (and they are very few) occasions
where case studies of happenings in virtual worlds are looked at
from a lawyer’s standpoint; these constitute the beginnings of a
jurisprudence for virtual worlds, and should be welcomed. My
only concern here is that laws may be drawn up prematurely,
without proper consultation with those who “get” virtual
worlds362, and we could be stuck with something unsuitable or
unworkable as a consequence.
I’d like to finish this section on law by mentioning a book363 by
Tim Jordan that isn’t about law at all: It’s about government.
Ultimately, laws are made by people with political power, not by
lawyers. Jordan looks at who has this power in cyberspace, and
360 Note that people have been stabbed to death after chess matches before,
so this is not something unique to virtual worlds.
361 This, on the other hand, does look new.
362 Or, worse, those who think they get them but don’t. Not every virtual
world is LambdaMOO.
363 Tim Jordan, Cyberpower: The Culture and Politics of Cyberspace and the
Internet. New York, Routledge, 1999.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 827
who wants it. If you know who’s going to make the rules, you
can get a good idea of the rules they are going to make.
Virtual Worlds as…Virtual Worlds
I set out in this chapter to examine how researchers in various
fields view virtual worlds. I feel I ought to end, however, with a
reminder for virtual world designers that there is very relevant
work going on much closer to home.
Community Management
Sooner or later, community management364 is going to become
a social science in its own right if it isn’t one already. Virtual
world designers create virtual worlds, but it’s the live team that
keeps them going. Designers should therefore take this into
account when they create worlds in the first place. Of course, as
I’ve been mentioning throughout this book, designers do pay
serious attention to the way that the virtual world will be run;
unless they have live-team experience (which the best of them
do, of course), their views may, however, be somewhat idealized.
As a designer, ask yourself if you would know what to do if:
• A confused player asked for help.
• A player whose character was stuck in a pit asked to be
extracted.
364 I’m using the term here to cover all community management, that is, inworld and out-of-world. There is a tendency for the big commercial virtual
worlds to apply “community management” only to out-of-world activities
such as running the web site; in-world management is usually “customer
support” or “customer relations.” Smaller virtual worlds don’t generally
make this distinction.
828 Chapter 6
• Either of the preceding occurred involving the same player
for the third time in 30 minutes.
• Two players were arguing about ownership of loot.
• A grief player who doesn’t think they are a grief player used
earlier anti-grief pronouncements of yours to cause grief.
• A concerned relative of a player got in touch asking about
addiction.
These are just some of the kinds of things that customer
relations staff have to handle routinely.
When a virtual world goes live it becomes part of the real world.
In the real world, things happen that the designer can’t control:
• Players multi-line—that is, play more than one character
simultaneously. This can be a big problem for small-scale
virtual worlds.
• Players divert risk. They will do anything dangerous with
a character they don’t care about, then hand the benefits
(treasure, and so on) over to one they do care about.
• Players collude. They form large gangs, and create their
own agendas that may be at odds with those of other
players.
• Players play the system. If they know you have an
attitude of “the customer is always right,” they will milk
it dry.
• Players communicate outside of the virtual world. This
puts them at an advantage over ones that have to
communicate within the virtual world where they can be
overheard. Carefully synchronized diversionary tactics to
occupy administrative staff while a bug is exploited are
not unprecedented.
• Players use bots and macros to automate functionality to
the detriment of other players.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 829
Community management staff need out-of-context tools so they
can spot these problems and implement any decisions they
make as a result. If the design can help, so much the better.
There’s a governmental issue here. If the community
management team wants something in the virtual world, does
the designer have to put it in or can they say no? There are
dangers in both approaches: Big-budget commercial virtual
worlds have failed to materialize because designers wouldn’t
compromise their designs to account for community
management concerns, and others have collapsed in a heap
because their designers did. It’s my belief365 that in the end, the
designer must be in overall charge—but that only a foolish
designer would ignore the community management team’s
input.
Without community management experience to draw on, the
following writings are the next-best thing:
• Daniel Pargman, 2000366. This is Pargman’s Ph.D. thesis,
which examines the administration of the textual world
SvenskMUD over a period of three and a half years. It is
amazingly detailed and full of insight; every professional
virtual world designer should have a copy, even though it is
somewhat obscure.
• John Suler, ongoing367. Psychologist Suler explains who
misbehaves in virtual worlds, why they misbehave, and
365 As a designer.
366 Daniel Pargman, Code Begets Community: On Social and Technical Aspects
of Managing a Virtual Community. Department of Communication Studies,
Linköping University, 2000.
http://esplanaden.lysator.liu.se/svmud/pargman/ (extracts only).
367 John Suler, The Bad Boys of Cyberspace: Deviant Behavior in Online
Multimedia Communities and Strategies for Managing It. This is part of his
830 Chapter 6
(most incredibly usefully) how to manage their behavior. It’s
as simple as that.
• Jonas Heide Smith, 2002368. This MA thesis describes the
design features that virtual worlds should incorporate if
they are to promote co-operation among their players,
rather than conflict. It has some very good explanations of
well-known369 viewpoints about behavior, as they apply to
virtual worlds.
Conclusion
This has been a long and difficult chapter. It took me longer to
write it than it did the rest of the book put together. However, I
hope it has served its purpose, which is to show
• Virtual worlds are a meaningful object of study.
• Most of those research fields that look at virtual worlds
do so with respect.
• Virtual world designers can learn much from researchers
in other fields and vice versa.
• No existing field of research entirely subsumes virtual
worlds.
• Virtual world design in particular is not covered
elsewhere.
ongoing hypertext book, The Psychology of Cyberspace.
http://www.rider.edu/~suler/psycyber/badboys.html.
368 Jonas Heide Smith, The Architectures of Trust: Supporting Co-operation in
the Computer-Supported Community. Department of Film and Media Studies,
University of Copenhagen, 2002.
http://autofire.dk/jonas/the_architectures_of_trust.pdf.
369 Among students of psychology and sociology, if not among virtual world
designers.
It’s Not a Game, It’s a… 831
The study of virtual worlds is a valid academic objective for its
own sake, in the same way that the study of literature, film,
theatre, or any other art form is valid. People who look at virtual
worlds professionally need feel no shame for doing so; they can
hold their heads up high. The stigmatization of virtual worlds as
“just games” or “just simulations” or “just services” or “just a
medium” is over. Virtual worlds are—virtual worlds! Rejoice in
it!
Yes, I did assert back there that virtual world design is an art
form. In the next chapter, I explain why I believe this to be so.
832 Chapter 7
Chapter 7
Toward a Critical
Aesthetic
Virtual worlds are works of art. I refer to their creators as
“designers,” but that’s a misnomer; really they’re artists1
.
Although there is some debate over the distinction between art
and design, it’s generally true that “design” has to convey a
given package of information or utility whereas “art” is an end
in itself. You tell a designer what you want; you ask an artist
what they’ve got. What virtual world designers do is more Art
than Design.
It’s like the difference between Science and Engineering:
Scientists seek truth, whereas engineers seek solutions. If you
ask an engineer to change a construct because you don’t like it,
they’ll do so; if you ask a scientist to change a theory because
1 The term “artist” is claimed by the people who draw the pictures in
computer games (and thence in virtual worlds), so I’m not proposing a name
change here.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 833
you don’t like it, they’ll stare at you blankly. Similarly, if you ask
a designer to change a decoration because you don’t like it,
they’ll do so; if you ask an artist to change a picture because you
don’t like it, they’ll attack you with a hammer.
Virtual world designers must work within many constraints,
and they do have to deliver a certain amount of utility. This is
something they consider an intrinsic part of their art, though. If
you want a formal portrait, you go to an artist who specializes in
portraiture and considers that as part of their art; you don’t pick
an artist at random from the Internet who might spend two
weeks making preliminary sketches then present you with a
wooden sculpture of a ship that is supposed somehow to
capture your personality. Top virtual world designers create
worlds because that’s how they express themselves artistically;
utility is intrinsic what they design, in the same way that
likeness is intrinsic to what a portrait artist paints. Designers
who create worlds because they’ve been told to may still be able
to put some self-expression or meaning into the product, but at
the end they’re creating for you. Artists create for themselves.
I have a namesake who is a fully fledged professional artist2
. His
medium is acrylic and collage. His work involves cutting images
from magazines, which he then laser-copies multiple times and
incorporates into an artistic whole. The uniform reproduction of
what are themselves mass-market images allows him to
comment on things like commercialism, politics, stereotypes
and many other things that interest him. He likens his process
of creation to alchemy: He takes a base copy and turns it into
art. As with any alchemy, this can only be achieved through a
proper understanding of the materials involved and a
meticulous approach to experimentation, hence all the
painstaking cutting-out. The fastidious and craft-intense
2 He’s http://www.richardbartle.co.uk; I’m http://www.richardbartle.com.
834 Chapter 7
process of creation gives him an understanding of the work he is
creating, which enables him to embody it in the final artifact.
Virtual world designers might not have quite this degree of
internalization about their work, but nevertheless if you plan to
tell one of them mid-way through a project that you want them
to drop something for marketing reasons, hide all the hammers
first.
Some of what virtual world designers do really is design rather
than art. Design is often used to create tools that can be used for
making art, or to construct building-block objects that can be
assembled in an artistic way. There are even theories for this3
. It
can be regarded as part of the designer’s craft. It’s not why they
do what they do, though; it isn’t itself Art.
Of course, virtual worlds are often such large-scale projects that
many people have artistic input. The same also applies to
movies; and in the same way that a movie’s director4 ultimately
holds artistic responsibility for that movie, the lead designer
holds artistic responsibility for their virtual world. Actors and
cinematographers, programmers and 3D modelers, they can all
be artists; directors and designers, however, are the artist.
A Theory of Virtual Worlds
It’s all very well for me to make these pompous assertions that
serve to glorify my own position. Unfortunately for me, it takes
3 Anna Cicognani, A Linguistic Characterisation of Design in Text-Based Virtual
Worlds. Department of Architectural and Design Science, University of
Sydney, 1998. http://www.arch.usyd.edu.au/~anna/phd/final.html.
4 Directors aren’t called artists either, because in their case actors bagged the
term first.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 835
more than slapping a pretentious label on something to make it
Art5
. Art may be expression, but it’s worthless unless it can be
recognized as such. People don’t have to know what a piece of
art “means,” but they do need to know how its meaning is
conveyed. This requires the development of a critical aesthetic6
.
Motivation
A critical aesthetic is a system of ascribing meaning to
individual examples of an art form. When formalized, it
amounts to a theory for that art.
The “aesthetic” here isn’t in the general sense: It’s not a branch
of philosophy concerned with matters such as “beauty” and
“taste.” Rather, it’s to do with the rules and principles that
underlie an art (in this case, virtual world creation). A virtual
world may look beautiful and have a great visual aesthetic, yet
suck as a world. The art director controls the look, but the
designer controls the world. Designers who want a particular
look hire art directors whose work exhibits that look. The look is
part of the overall aesthetic. Introducing the notion of criticism
allows for rationalization of the communicative aspects of this
aesthetic.
A legitimate question to ask is whether virtual worlds need such
a theory. The number of professional practitioners of virtual
world design is low, and they don’t have trouble interpreting
each other’s work. Wouldn’t it be better to wait until the field
has developed more before attempting to nail it down? It
probably would, yes. I have three reasons for going ahead and
trying to do it anyway:
5 Exception: If an established artist slaps the label on, then it is art.
6
I apologize unreservedly for the pretentiousness of this term. Regrettably,
the alternatives are even worse, so we’re stuck with it.
836 Chapter 7
• The virtual world community has a sense of inferiority in
comparison to more established art forms. My Sunday
newspaper is happy to spend two full pages discussing
the merits of avant-garde glassware lamp stands, but
what non-geek takes virtual worlds seriously? A critical
aesthetic would demonstrate that there is more to
virtual worlds than killing virtual monsters and learning
written French.
• I want to get straight in my own mind how I judge a
virtual world.
• If I don’t write all this down, someone else is only going
to do it anyway.
The first of these mirrors the main reason that film theory was
developed in the 1970s, but the other two are purely selfish.
Fortunately, the first reason is good enough that I can indulge
the other two.
The pro-art position is actually worse than I’ve made out in that
there is some debate within the virtual world development
community over whether treating virtual world design as art is
counter-productive. In 2001, as major virtual world designers
(particularly Raph Koster) made increasing pronouncements
that took for granted the artistic nature of what they did,
players began to express concern. Jessica Mulligan, the most
long-standing and forthright proponent of players’ rights,
voiced these opinions in her well-read Skotos column, Biting the
Hand7
. Her remarks caused a firestorm.
Jess’s argument was that players were becoming incidental to
virtual world design. They signed up to play a game8
, but they
7
Jessica Mulligan, Just Give Me a Game, Please. Skotos, Biting The Hand,
August 2001. http://www.skotos. net/articles/BTH_07.html.
8 This debate was in the context of gamelike virtual worlds.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 837
were being misled; the grandiose ideas of designers were
making players unwilling participants in experimental
performance art. By treating players as mere objects to be
controlled through the brilliance of their creativity, designers
were showing staggering arrogance and contempt. This elitist
attitude could ultimately be sourced in designers’ belief that
they were creating art. It would be better if they were disabused
of this belief.
Jess did accept that art was involved in the design of virtual
worlds, because it’s fundamentally a creative exercise. What she
objected to was the view that players were a part of the work.
Players want to be entertained; if, while playing, some art form
were to entertain them, fine, no problem. When they’re
considered a component of the art form, or to be paying in order
to experience the art form, that’s not so good. Designers
shouldn’t try to impose their vision on players at the expense of
what players actually want.
Skotos published two responses to this article.
The first, by Travis Casey9
, defended the pro-art point of view by
considering whom virtual world designers ought to try to
entertain. He concluded that of all the possibilities, the only one
that guaranteed anyone at all would find the world entertaining
was if designers designed to entertain themselves. Travis sees
this as essentially an artistic stand: If you don’t like what’s being
produced, you’re not one of the people for whom it was being
produced. I’m ambivalent about this; most design teams do
design for themselves, but a top-notch designer doesn’t get any
9 Travis S. Casey, What’s Entertainment? Skotos, Building Stories, Telling
Games, August 2001.
http://www.skotos.net/articles/BSTG_15.html.
838 Chapter 7
enduring pleasure from playing a virtual world, just from
creating it.
The second response was by Raph Koster, in Jess’s own column
at her invitation10. Raph agreed that it was the first duty of a
virtual world to be fun11, but argued that art subsumes
entertainment. Art can do many things, of which “entertain” is
but one. Just because you do art, doesn’t mean you can’t do
entertainment. Raph further argued that art brings an emphasis
on craft, perfectionism, and ethics—things that the virtual
world design community desperately needs. At a time when
virtual worlds are struggling for legitimacy, attacking
articulations of artistic purpose is not helpful.
Raph didn’t directly address Jess’s point that the objectifying of
players leads to bad art, but from the passion of his argument
it’s fairly clear that he doesn’t feel he himself is guilty of it. I
personally don’t believe it is necessarily always a bad thing:
Different problems can need different paradigms, and
sometimes you do need sociology rather than psychology. It
becomes inexcusable when it’s used inappropriately. Players are
players first, components of an elaborate, orchestrated
simulation only occasionally; however, “occasionally” is not
“never.”
Designers that are the caliber of Raph Koster shouldn’t have to
defend what they do. Players should be thinking, “this is a Raph
10 Raph Koster, The Case for Art. Skotos, Biting The Hand, September 2001.
http://www.skotos.net/articles/BTH_09.shtml.
I ought to point out here that Raph has a Master’s degree in Fine Arts and
Jess’s background includes a stint as a professional actor, so they both know
what they’re talking about.
11 Remember, he was talking in the context of gamelike virtual worlds. The
first duty of other virtual worlds— educational or conferencing systems, for
example—is usually different.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 839
Koster game—I really want to play it!”; they shouldn’t be
looking to prick what appears to be (but isn’t) a bubble of
pomposity. Their concerns arise because although they have
been immersed in virtual worlds, they have not been involved in
the design process; the more they were to know about virtual
world design, the more they would be able to appreciate the
special qualities that individual designers bring to their
creations. A critical aesthetic would help qualify what they
should look for, if not dictate what they think when they see it.
There is a danger in having a critical aesthetic for an art in that
it can take the edge off it, making it self-conscious. As a
corollary, the more an art form is deconstructed, the less it
means as a whole. As I noted in Chapter 2, “How to Make Virtual
Worlds,” designers can’t play virtual worlds for fun (at least in
the same sense that players do) because they can see too much
of the machinery. They may be impressed by the way the virtual
world is put together, by the nice touches and subtle nuances
they perceive, but they aren’t going to get excited by mounting
an expedition to rescue a villager from a bunch of
hobgobbledygooks. They don’t get caught up in their world’s
fiction. This is not a situation that it would be wise to imbue in
players; it’s good if they can appreciate aspects of a design when
they reflect on them, but bad if they’re into the aesthetic so
deeply that they can’t appreciate the whole point of playing—
that is, to have fun.
So if self-consciousness, leading to pretentiousness and
humorlessness, is the disadvantage of having a critical
aesthetic, what are the disadvantages of not having one?
Well, designers will make the same mistakes that other
designers have made before; they’ll do things without knowing
why, advance in directions that are doomed to disappoint—all
the failings that I have been ranting on about throughout this
840 Chapter 7
book12. Designers like to think of themselves as creative people,
who instinctively know what’s right and don’t need any “rules.”
Without rules, though, how can you be a rule-breaker?
Virtual worlds need a critical aesthetic. Indeed, they may need
more than one: I’m considering them as an art form in their
entirety, but, as I pointed out, there is plenty of scope for
creativity in their component parts. A player who designs their
own area to fit into the greater design may work to some more
specific aesthetic peculiar to that task. What is right for
designers doesn’t have to be right for everyone else. It does,
however, have to be right for designers.
This book is about the design of virtual worlds, and therefore
the critical aesthetic I shall attempt to develop is for virtual
worlds as a whole.
Some Questions
In developing a critical aesthetic for virtual worlds, we need to
answer some difficult questions. I won’t pretend I answer any of
them, but here they are anyway:
• How is the “value” of the virtual world experience
determined?
• What do you need to understand when you have fun, and
how do people with different understandings interact?
• What rules apply to all virtual worlds, and what are their
limitations?
• What symbolism exists within the virtual world itself
and within the way it is presented?
12 I’m not the only person to rail against it, either. Howard Collins calls it “The
Grandfather Clause of Stupidity” in his excellent manifesto for holistic game
design, Mu’s Unbelievably Long and Disjointed Ramblings about RPG Design.
2001. http://mu.ranter.net/theory/printversion.html.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 841
Earlier in this book, I advanced the theory that the value of the
virtual world experience is that individuals come to understand
more about themselves through the virtual world. This is only
one interpretation, though: Players will rarely cite identity
issues as the reason they play a virtual world. Then again, when
players are asked what they do find fun, they come up with the
same answers that gave rise to my player types model in the
first place. When developers and publishers are asked to
determine the value of the virtual world experience, they point
to the length of time people keep active accounts; although this
may be a metric, it’s not a value. I don’t want to know what
people are prepared to lose in terms of time or money; I want to
know what they gain.
The player development model I presented in Chapter 3,
“Players,” describes what players need to understand when they
have fun. It also showed the way that players at different stages
of development interact with one another13. The result is as
much of a formal Theory of Virtual Worlds that we have at the
moment—that is, about half of a framework.
The third question has a facetious answer: The rules that apply
to virtual worlds are those imposed by reality. Reality always
wins. Although this is true, when it comes to playing virtual
worlds, a number of “rules” are nevertheless in place. Designers
don’t have to create a virtual world with a physics that looks
kind of like real-life physics, but they do. They do it because
these are part of the paradigm. I discussed the way virtual
worlds hang together and the rationale behind it in Chapter 4,
“World Design” and Chapter 5, “Life in the Virtual World;” this
13 Only for the four “original” types, though; the eight “new” types map onto
the original four, but I didn’t do the type/type comparisons for them as there
are 36 combinations.
842 Chapter 7
isn’t to say that new paradigms won’t arise, but for the moment
we’re still exploring what we have.
So that’s three questions out of the way.
I shall attempt to address the final question in the remainder of
this chapter. Because it involves practice that has evolved over
time in the design of virtual worlds, it doesn’t link directly into
the rest of the theory, although it does touch on it. Nevertheless,
its subject matter is as much a part of the theory as words are of
language.
That doesn’t mean finding an answer is going to be easy,
though.
Template Theories
It’s easier to create something new by beginning with
something old than it is to start from nothing. In developing a
critical aesthetic for virtual worlds, it makes sense to look at
existing theories for related art forms and see what light they
can shed. It’s unlikely that they’ll fit very closely, but
nevertheless they could provide a framework on which to build.
Perhaps the symbolism used in virtual worlds is gifted to us
already through that of its nearest relatives?
I assert that the two closest art forms to virtual worlds are
computer games and film14. Computer games don’t yet have a
theoretical underpinning. Everything is still too transient
because technology is always ahead. The reason your mobile
phone has more computational power than the 1970s
mainframe on which MUD1 was written is entirely due to
14 Sorry, theatre fans, but virtual worlds aren’t performance. Sorry, literature
fans, but virtual worlds aren’t story. Sorry, urban planning fans, but virtual
worlds aren’t community.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 843
computer games. Business users didn’t push for faster CPUs,
better sound, better graphics, higher-capacity portable media;
computer gamers did. I bought my first CD-ROM drive after
installing a game that came on nine floppies; because enough
people like me did the same thing, the price of CD-ROM drives
fell and new PCs started appearing with them fitted as standard.
I didn’t buy a 19-inch monitor so I could keep more spreadsheet
windows open at once; I bought it because it allowed me to see
more of the Civilization II map. Early adopters—who will pay a
premium for the latest technology if it means they can play the
latest games—play games. Unfortunately, this implies the level
of innovation is currently too high for a critical aesthetic to be
viable.
The alternative view is that innovation is actually low because
publishers too often play it safe, and a critical aesthetic doesn’t
exist because no self-respecting academic would sacrifice their
career to develop one.
Computer games do have critics, in the form of reviewers who
describe the latest games in professional magazines. In
comparing the various merits of games, clearly some aesthetic
is in action (even if it’s moderated by the fact that many
magazines are heavily reliant on income from advertising taken
out by the publishers of the very games reviewed). Reviewers
will in general comment on a game’s genre, its graphics and
sound quality, its gameplay, any special features, any technical
issues, and its relationship to similar games; mainly, though,
they’re interested in whether it is fun to play. If it doesn’t
engage them, they will criticize it; if it does, they’ll give it a high
rating. Some magazines attempt to break down ratings into
their contributing parts (graphics, sound, gameplay, and so on),
but that’s as far as it goes.
Given that the form of reviews has now stabilized (you could
take a review from five years ago, bring its references up to
844 Chapter 7
date, and it would read like a review from today), there may well
be the makings of a Theory of Computer Games here.
Unfortunately, we don’t have one yet. Thus, although I can draw
parallels between virtual worlds and computer games, clearly I
can’t use any Theory of Computer Games as a foundation for
looking at virtual worlds because there isn’t one.
For film, on the other hand, there does exist a mature critical
aesthetic15. Because of this, movies can entertain and have
meaning beyond entertainment. Although there’s nothing to
stop computer games from having meaning beyond
entertainment, their lack of a critical aesthetic makes this a rare
occurrence; this is why when something entertaining does
arrive that gives players cause to introspect, it’s regarded as
something special16
.
I shall therefore base my analysis of virtual world aesthetics
primarily on that of film theory. Those readers about to panic in
fear that I’m justifying subjecting them to yet another dose of
reference-heavy academic prose will doubtless be pleased to
learn that no knowledge of film studies is assumed. You may
need to know where I’m coming from, but you don’t need to
know what I’m coming from….
Signs and Symbols
So, let’s start with symbols.
When movies were first made, directors had to develop a
language and their audience had to learn it: Real life doesn’t
have jump cuts. When something happens in the way
information is presented on a movie screen, which runs counter
15 Rooted, incidentally, in those of film’s closest relatives, photography and
theatre.
16 Example: the Ultima series.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 845
to the way that human senses accept information in the real
world, this signals an interrupt that the mind needs to interpret
consciously. By codifying the interrupts so they are always used
under the same circumstances, the brain can learn what they
“mean.” This done, subsequent occurrences of the interrupt
don’t register unless they subvert the code in some way.
I recall as a child seeing a film on TV where the action started
going on in several small mini-screens at once. I figured this
meant the story had branched and I had a choice about which
mini-screen to watch. Not knowing which story was going to
turn out best, I asked my father for his advice. He explained that
it was all part of the same story, and the activities shown were
meant to be going on simultaneously; therefore I should try to
pay attention to all of them at once. Nowadays when I see a
split-screen effect, it doesn’t even record in my consciousness, I
just “know” it means that several things are happening at once.
It’s a symbol for which I have a reliable meaning. However, if
early directors had gone a different way, a split-screen could
have signified something entirely different.
The field of semiotics is concerned with the associating of
meaning to signs. When the signs are structured according to a
grammar, the result is a language; when they are merely
systematized, the result is a vocabulary. For movies—and, as we
shall see, virtual worlds—they aren’t organized even to that
degree. Nevertheless, the codes do exist, and they do have
meanings that have been implicitly agreed on by those who
create and experience them.
Determining the meaning of the signs (that arise because of the
difference between virtual world technology and the way reality
works) is therefore important. You didn’t think virtual worlds
had signs? When you watch a TV drama, you don’t think you’re
actually a character participating in it, yet when you play a
virtual world you do. Why? Is it merely because you control a
846 Chapter 7
character? No: It’s because you accept that the character you
control is a token that represents you. Accept it enough, and it
becomes you (and you become it). Immersion is accepting the
signifier as the signified. Those pixels on the screen are just
pixels; you associate meaning with them.
For a critical aesthetic to be useful, it has to aim for universality.
Everyone should understand the signs and their denotations in
the same way. If I visit a textual world for the first time, I expect
new conversational messages to appear below those I have
already read17; I could play some other world that puts them
above, but it would feel (to me) seriously weird. For textual
worlds, there are reasons (ultimately to do with the way people
read books) which explain why “above” connotes “before” and
“below” connotes “after.” For graphical worlds, though,
conversational messages don’t have to appear in a single
window at all—they can (and do) appear in multiple embedded
windows—for example, as speech bubbles18. These are still
signs, though: Even though I can see words above some
character’s head, I don’t assume I can pick them up like I could
fruit hanging from a tree.
The coming of graphics to virtual worlds is like the coming of
sound to movies. The same old rules apply, but the emphasis is
different; there are also some new rules. These are rules,
however, that are learned very early in a player’s career, if
indeed they didn’t already know them from other art forms. It is
possible (albeit tedious) to list them all, but doing so would only
be of academic interest—a chart showing every color and its
emotional impact doesn’t make everyone a landscape artist.
Where signs are important to designers is in their use, and I
shall therefore refer to them in this context rather than
17 I’m assuming the language used is English, here.
18 Co-opted from comics, therefore already understood by most players.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 847
enumerating the major ones here and continually referring back
to the resulting table.
Symbols in virtual worlds have two roles. One is to make
statements valid in the real world, and the other is to make
statements valid in the virtual world. A virtual world that
imposes a character class regime is “about” order and
conformity; one that doesn’t is “about” choice and
independence. Both of these are political statements,
irrespective of designers’ bleatings to the contrary; they’re
statements that the virtual world makes in the real world
through its design. A room complex that has increasingly lower
light levels, on the other hand, is a statement within the context
of the virtual world itself: It says that these rooms are
successively more dangerous, because darkness is a metaphor
for danger.
I’ll address the external symbolism first, then move on to the
internal symbolism.
Dimensions
External symbolism in virtual worlds can be explicit. You can
create a virtual world where everyone is a dolphin trying to save
the ocean from the evil oil companies that pollute the water19
.
This is not the kind of symbolism that I mean here, however.
Rather, I’m concerned with the implicit kind, which are
manifestations of the different views that designers hold
regarding what is important about virtual worlds.
Debate—both verbally and through the action of design—takes
place along several dimensions at once. Formally, these are
19 Of course, those same oil companies provide electricity companies with the
fuel they need to generate the power used to run the computers that
implement the virtual world itself, but politics doesn’t have to be consistent.
848 Chapter 7
known as dialectics—opposing viewpoints, the eventual
resolution of which leads (hopefully) to the development of new
viewpoints and, consequently, new dialectics. Movements may
spring up that oppose the consensus or propose new ways of
looking at things; sometimes, these extend across several art
forms (as did impressionism, for example).
So what are the dialectics for virtual worlds? Let’s look at our
antecedents. In film theory, the main historical dialectics20
are/were
• Life versus drama. Should film be used to record life or to
create fiction?
• Realism versus expressionism. Can more be said by
showing the real or the artificial?
• Genre versus auteur. How is the demand for predefined,
stylized story forms reconciled with the artistic feelings
of film makers?
• Reality versus fantasy. What is the role and power of
authenticity?
• Entertainment versus communication. Is it the purpose of
film to entertain the audience or to change it?
• Innovation versus derivation. Should audiences be given
what we think they want or what they think they want?
Computer games don’t have a formal theory, but two obvious
themes that probably qualify as dialectics are
• Hard core versus mass market. Are games for gamesplayers or for everybody?
• Graphics versus gameplay. How much substance should
be sacrificed to form?
20 These are taken from James Monaco, How to Read a Film: Movies, Media,
Multimedia (3rd edition). New York, Oxford University Press, 2000.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 849
Scanning through these lists, some dialectics seem more
appropriate to virtual worlds than others. Taking them in turn:
• Life versus drama. This is either a non-issue or an allembracing meta-issue that highlights what makes virtual
worlds different from all other art forms. From the point of
view of the player, virtual worlds are clearly not real—
they’re virtual!— therefore it’s a non-argument. Designers,
while in the main also subscribe to this view, bear a
responsibility for the consequences of their designs that
players don’t. This means they must accept that virtual
worlds and their players are part of reality, and that the
fiction is part of the fact: What happens in the virtual can
affect the real. It’s ridiculous to suggest that virtual worlds
should record reality, yet in some sense reality can record
the consequences of virtual worlds. That said, although this
may be an important point, it’s not a dialectic. Designers are
able to apply both paradigms as the context dictates.
• Realism versus expressionism. This is perhaps a dialectic-tobe. Currently, designers regard realism as a tool for
immersion, and any attempt to express emotion through
artificial devices would break this immersion. It may be that
as virtual worlds develop, the bond between realism and
immersion can be made more supple, in which case an
expressionistic approach could be attempted. We shall have
to wait and see.
• Genre versus auteur. This is an emerging dialectic. Most
designers are happy to work within a predefined genre, or
even a particular licensed franchise. What makes them less
happy is when bumbling, opinionated, know-nothing
manager types demand changes without appreciating the
effects it would have on gameplay, let alone the implications
850 Chapter 7
for the work as a whole21. As designers gain reputations for
their work, their power will increase. At that point, this
dialectic will become an issue. When they’re strong enough
to form their own development companies, it will cease to be
one. You will have noted that this chapter comes down
firmly on the side of auteur; whatever virtual world
development companies may wish, ultimately the designers
are going to win this argument.
• Reality versus fantasy. The main question here is that of
authenticity. It concerns the degree to which the situations
and issues depicted in the art form reflect those of reality. It
doesn’t mean the same thing as life versus drama; it doesn’t
present a record of reality, but it does say things about
reality. For example, a virtual world in which players take on
the role of members of a contemporary oppressed people
struggling under a dictatorship might have powerful
resonance with whatever real-life situation it is based on,
giving players a deeper insight into the plight of the
individuals who have to suffer that fate from day to day.
Although there is a place for such virtual worlds, they are
clearly unlikely to have any great artistic effect on the
majority; they’re just too bleak to keep players in them for
extended periods. Thus, any dialectic that does arise from
looking at virtual worlds as social or political commentary is
probably going to be of only minor importance.
21 Hopefully, those manager types reading this book hoping to gain an insight
into virtual world design will, by now, have realized that the best thing to do
is leave the design to the designer. If the designer steps outside the agreed
remit, fair enough, jump on them. If their work looks iffy and they are unable
satisfactorily to articulate why, again, haul them over the coals. If you have
an idea that might help, tell them, it can’t hurt. If you order them to make a
change, though, that’s a mistake. They’re the designer, not you.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 851
• Entertainment versus communication. This is an ongoing
dialectic in virtual worlds22, as the exchanges between
Jessica Mulligan and Raph Koster demonstrate. The crux of
the matter is that what the players want syntactically (a
virtual world that looks good, plays well, and is fun) is not
what they want semantically (a virtual world that helps
them define who they are). In fact, it’s probably a lot worse
than this in that many players will reject outright the
suggestion that they could be playing for any reason other
than to have fun23. Players and designers alike agree that it
is axiomatic that virtual worlds should be entertaining.
However, although designers might understand that there is
no communication without entertainment, many players
and publishers don’t accept that there is no entertainment
without communication.
• Innovation versus derivation. The most spectacularly
successful virtual worlds have been those significantly
different from their predecessors. The same applies to the
most spectacularly unsuccessful ones. Those who lack the
time, money, or creativity to innovate prefer derivation, but
players who prefer the comfort of the old to the uncertainty
of the new also drive it. Codebases and middleware solutions
can help deliver a virtual world that wouldn’t have existed
otherwise, but if it means designers are forced to work
within a moribund paradigm, then ultimately it’s a bad
thing. This is one debate that is never, ever, going to be
resolved.
• Hard core versus mass market. In the early days of online
services, 10% of users provided 90% of revenues24. Computer
22 This is true even when the virtual world is not intended to be used
primarily for entertainment.
23 I’ve presented in this book my arguments to the contrary, but people are
entitled to believe whatever they like.
24 Or 20% of users provided 80% of revenues. The true figure is probably
somewhere in between.
852 Chapter 7
games manufacturers noticed the same thing: A small
number of dedicated, hard-core players bought far more
games than did casual gamers. When games-only online
services went for the hard core, they almost always failed;
when computer games publishers went for the mass market,
they almost always failed. Where does this leave virtual
worlds? Should they target a well-served existing hard core
of players, or spread their net further to tap the possibly
ambivalent mass market? As with entertainment versus
communication, this is an ongoing dialectic with an end that
is not in doubt: Virtual worlds must become more massmarket, because luring players away from other virtual
worlds is simply too hard25. However, in so doing they will
develop their own hard core of players, which cannot then be
ignored.
• Graphics versus gameplay. How much of the available
investment in a virtual world should be spent on making it
look good as opposed to making it play well? In the
computer games industry, graphics rule: Unless a product
looks bang up to date, reviewers won’t review it and players
won’t buy it. The same applies to virtual worlds that
compete in the same marketplace, but with a sting: Regular
computer games are fire-and-forget, in that once you (as a
developer) have sold them you don’t care how great the
long-term gameplay is—you already have the customer’s
money. Virtual worlds, however, make their profits from
subscriptions, which depend on good long-term gameplay
for their success. So, do you go for graphics or gameplay? Or
25 Bruce Woodcock’s analysis of virtual world subscription base growth
shows that DAoC may have got up to 75% of its players from UO and EQ. but
Nick Yee’s Daedalus Project suggests that these are loyalty-free, floating
players who will switch to a newer virtual world from whatever one they are
currently playing. In other words, you may be able to get them, but will you
be able to keep them? http://pw1.netcom.com/~sirbruce/Subscriptions.html,
http://www.nickyee.com/daedalus/archives/000195.php.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 853
do you spend double and go for both? The text/ graphics
split of virtual worlds makes this apposite, but it’s not really
a dialectic as such. Players want both looks and gameplay;
the only question is whether the look is on the computer
screen or in the player’s mind. Textual worlds may have the
stronger intellectual claim on a construction versus
reconstruction basis, but graphical ones have the players. So
for this dialectic, graphical worlds win; end of argument.
Besides these dimensions of debate, virtual worlds have some of
their own. The ones that attract the most tension are
• Direction versus non-direction. Should the designers and/or
live team guide player activity explicitly?
• Responsibility versus liability. What do players agree to when
they sign up to play a virtual world?
• Story versus history. To what extent are players part of the
work or part of the production?
• Individual versus community. Is this a world for individuals or
for groups of individuals?
Again, taking these one at a time:
• Direction versus non-direction. There is always some
directedness in virtual worlds—even the most open-ended
of them—because designers cannot create them neutrally
even if they want to. Reality is neutral; anything else is mere
interpretation. The degree of direction is in question,
however. Players often find their choice of character type
restricted, or their goals, or even their narrative. How much
should designers hold players’ hands and how much should
players be left to roam free26?
26 This can be related to other factors, too. For example, hard-core players
may want their hand held less than do mass-market players.
854 Chapter 7
• Responsibility versus liability. This is this issue of players’
perceived rights to do stuff, opposed by their rights not to
have stuff done to them. It’s the dialectic that underlies PvP
and PD. What risks to their characters and to themselves do
players accept when they join a virtual world, and what
happens when those risks bite? Are such risks necessary? Or
are the consequences of not having them ultimately worse?
• Story versus history. Although this is sometimes linked with
direction versus non-direction, the two are different. The
question is whether virtual worlds are works of art that are
handed over to players to do with as they will, or whether
the players are themselves part of the work. Does the
designer ever let go? Or is the virtual world designed so that
whatever players do conforms to some greater vision?
• Individual versus community. What’s good for the individual is
not necessarily good for the community, and vice versa. For
example, selling characters on eBay may be good for the two
people involved, but it can hurt the virtual world as a whole.
Similarly, players who band together can rip through
content quicker than can the same number of individuals
playing independently. At the moment, this is a fairly
dormant argument, but its issues have not yet been resolved
and it could reawaken any time (especially if real-life court
cases make enough noise).
So, having looked at all of these various dimensions along which
opinion is (or may become) divided, which are the most
important? Any answer can only be subjective, but my own
opinion is that these are currently the top five:
• Genre versus auteur
• Entertainment versus communication
• Direction versus non-direction
• Responsibility versus liability
• Hard core versus mass market
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 855
This book advances an opinion on every one of these; you might
want to bear that in mind when reading the rest of this chapter,
because it is in the context of these dialectics that the
discussion takes place.
I should also point out that even if people do agree on a position,
their interpretation of it can differ radically. Asheron’s Call 2, for
example, aims for the mainstream (good), but does so by
imposing a cosseted blandness on everything. People don’t like
it when their arrows run out during combat? Here, have an
infinite supply! Is running to the shop to sell your loot too
onerous? You can convert it to cash in your backpack! Turbine
may believe that dumbing down is the way to make its world
more appealing to a mass market, but it’s not apparent why it
should be. Why do people play virtual worlds? No, really, why?
What’s the fundamental reason? Clue: It’s not “to have fun,” and
even if it were, removing any challenge by wrapping characters
in virtual cotton wool wouldn’t deliver it.
Virtual world designers can have contrasting views on what
virtual worlds are about, and contrasting views on how best to
address those issues. They express their opinions in designs; the
differences in philosophy lead to differences in design. By
reading the differences in design, the differences in philosophy
can be divined. If, when you look at a virtual world, you can
associate a feature to a particular dialectic, you have the crucial
insight you need to have a critical aesthetic. If not, you need to
think about it until you do.
I could at this point produce a list of things to look out for
(symbols) and link them to particular viewpoints (dialectics),
thereby creating a system for interpreting what virtual world
designers are saying with their worlds. Tempting though this is,
I shall nevertheless refrain. This is a book for the designers of
virtual worlds, not for their players. If designers were to create
856 Chapter 7
virtual worlds deliberately to convey a particular message, it
would make sense to explain the symbols through which this
communication takes place. However, designers don’t do this.
The message arises from their internal artistic conflicts along
the various dialectic dimensions, and is merely revealed
through their designs. Designers don’t think what to say and
then figure a way to say it; they say it, and leave it to others to
figure out what it means.
This isn’t to say that such an analysis isn’t worth undertaking; it
would be a powerful aid to people looking at virtual worlds
seriously for the first time and struggling to understand the
competing philosophies. It’s just that this book is not the place
to embark on such an exercise.
Whence the Symbols Come
An analysis of internal symbolism is justifiable here. Virtual
world designers have many options available to them about
what they put into a virtual world, what they leave out, how
they put it in, and so on. In selecting between all the possibilities
available to them, designers are employing their artistic
faculties; furthermore, they are doing so deliberately. They want
(for design/artistic reasons) to achieve an effect, therefore they
arrange the virtual world to create it.
So what weapons do designers have in their armory? And how
do they employ these to tell players things?
Well, first let’s look at what they don’t have in their armory.
They don’t have the ability to cut, fade, or do anything else that
shatters the basic “you are here” conceit. They have no pausing,
saving, replaying, scene breaks, or acts. These limitations make
them different from both film and computer games in
fundamental ways.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 857
Players get to pan, track, and zoom; players get to decide where
they point the camera; players decide whether they see
themselves in first, second, or third person. Designers give them
this control, and don’t get it back. Although players can in theory
record and edit their own content for public consumption, this
facility is not available to designers; the nearest they get to it is
the patch cycle, which is something of a blunt instrument (but
nevertheless usable, as we shall see shortly).
So although film directors are concerned with what to shoot and
how to shoot it27, virtual world designers are not because the
players make those decisions. Instead, designers are concerned
with what to cause to exist and how to cause it to exist28
.
Composition is of static objects and the starting locations of
non-static objects (or restarting locations, for static spawns)29
.
It is important to distinguish between the art that the designer
creates within the virtual world and the art created by others in
the same context. If a designer lays out boulders in a certain
way to imbue a location with a particular feel, that’s not the
same as if a player takes those boulders and builds a statue out
of them. They’re both works of art, but they’re not works of the
same art; the former enables the latter. It’s not like sampling or
collage, which reuses art in different ways; it’s art-within-art.
Chapter 6, “It’s Not a Game, It’s a …,” mentioned virtual theater
companies whose players30 perform on the stage that virtual
27 Students of film call this mise-en-scène, which is French for “setting in
scene” or “staging.”
28 Not so much mise-en-scène as mise-en-forme.
29 It’s easy for designers to underestimate the power of context—that is, the
statement they make by the juxtaposition of objects. For an excellent essay
on this subject (albeit in the context of single-player worlds), see: Roger
Giner-Sorolla, Crimes Against Mimesis. April, 1996.
http://bang.dhs.org/if/library/design/mimesis.html.
30 In two senses of the word.
858 Chapter 7
worlds provide. Again, this is art in its own right, but again it
differs from the art of the world’s designer. Why? Because the
symbolism is different. The same objects mean different things
to the different artistic traditions. There’s also the issue of
ownership.
Developers can and do claim legal ownership of the entire
database that defines their virtual world and all images
generated from it. To reproduce so much as a screenshot, you
need their permission. This has implications on art-within-art,
in that an artist can’t claim ownership of their work even if it’s
of higher quality than the art it is within. If Leonardo Da Vinci
had painted The Last Supper on the sidewalk, he couldn’t have
dug it up and taken it home. Why? Because it wasn’t his sidewalk.
Similarly, any art created in virtual worlds is fundamentally
transient, with the sole exception of that intrinsic to the virtual
world itself. Sea level stays where it is until the designer says
otherwise.
As a bit of an aside, although ownership of the bytes is not (or
should not be) in dispute, ownership of the photons they
generate is perhaps less defensible. Virtual worlds are places. If I
visited New York and took a photograph of a street scene, I
would not be violating anyone’s copyright. Sure, if I were doing
something disruptive such as a movie shoot, then I’d need
permission from the authorities first. For a snapshot, though,
forget it! Furthermore, any artistic statement made by this
would be all mine. The cult 1960s TV show The Prisoner was
made in the Welsh village of Portmeirion and owed much of its
other-worldliness to this location’s singular appearance. Its
architect, Clough Williams-Ellis, did not “own” The Prisoner
artistically, though; he made his statement through his
architecture, and left its interpretation to individuals. Designers
of virtual worlds need to let go; if they don’t they’re not creating
virtual worlds, they’re creating something else.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 859
Virtual world designers provide the tools and the toys. They
covenant with the players that, within the virtual world, these:
• Have value
• Have meaning
• Make sense
When the sense they make is two-fold (text and subtext), that’s
symbolism.
A Chemistry for Virtual Worlds
In screenplays, every action and every piece of dialogue must
have a purpose. Movies are so expensive to make that anything
that doesn’t advance the plot or round out a character must be
ruthlessly cut. This even applies to comedies: You may laugh at
the joke, but if the joke weren’t there, then at a purely structural
level there would be a minor plot hole.
Virtual worlds don’t have quite the same financial or narrative
constraints. It’s not the case that everything must have a
purpose, but everything31 ought to have a potential purpose32
.
The players may determine a different purpose entirely to the
one intended, deliberately or otherwise, but so long as they find
some purpose they’re happy. It’s very frustrating to look for an
object’s use when it doesn’t actually have one, and even worse if
your complaints bring only hoots of laughter from the live team.
31 Some designers would limit this to “the vast majority of objects.” As I
mentioned in Chapter 4, it’s preferable to give even decorative objects some
tangible meaning, if only for immersive reasons. However, if there are
players who get excited specifically by intangible-only content, what harm
does it do to indulge them (so long as it’s clear that the content’s meaning is
intangible)?
32 Communicating this purpose to players can be something of a challenge.
Not everyone wants to read page after page of lore, for example.
860 Chapter 7
In screenplays, the dialogue, action, characters, and locations
are the “atoms” that are built up into the “molecules” of scenes.
Each atom has a purpose; using a different atom will change the
chemistry of the resulting molecule, making it react differently
with the other molecules that make up the screenplay as a
whole. Sometimes an atom can work at multiple levels, as in the
example of a one-liner in a comedy: It might make you smile, it
might move the plot forward a notch, it may say something
about the character who utters it (or the character who is its
butt), it could influence the pacing, it might even make a point
out of context for the screenplay itself altogether. And this
applies to every line out of 110 pages of lines? Therein lies the
art of the screenwriter.
Virtual world design documents have similar atoms: objects,
commands, characters, and locations. What molecules are these
atoms built into? Quests?
At a tangible level, yes. Players want things to do, and by
arranging design atoms such that in combination they enable
the solving of quests (whether generated by the world itself of
by its players), the whole can behave differently from its parts.
Quests are valid design molecules, but they’re not the ones I’m
going to talk about here. This discussion concerns the symbols
used in virtual worlds, and symbols need both a tangible and an
intangible meaning33. Quests do have intangible meaning, but
it’s to the individual player at a hero’s journey level34
.
33 If the symbols became abstract, the only tangible meaning they would
really need is that of existence. However, as I just said, in virtual worlds (at
least for the moment) all objects should have some purpose apparent to the
players; this means they need a tangible meaning, even if over time it
becomes increasingly nominal.
34 It’s open to designers to associate other meanings to quests, thereby
enabling their use as symbols. They don’t seem to do this at the moment,
though, probably because quest systems themselves are still in flux.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 861
Designers use tangible objects to construct intangible meaning
by combining them to influence breadth, depth, and
atmosphere.
Breadth means player choice. The size of the world, the number
of objects within it, the variety of commands: Breadth is form.
Depth means understanding. The effects of commands, the
complexity of the physics, the ability to use things in
unintended ways: Depth is function. Where breadth reflects the
range of opportunities that players have to change to the world,
depth reflects the extent of change that each individual
opportunity can effect.
When a newbie joins a virtual world, it’s the breadth that
interests them. They want to know that there is depth but they
don’t want to be exposed to it (otherwise it will seem too
daunting35). Depth is for more experienced players, for whom
breadth is unsatisfying. The further along their development
track a player is, the more they will favor depth over breadth.
In terms of symbolism, depth is easier to deal with than breadth.
Breadth is by definition global to the virtual world, therefore
any differences in breadth that might be picked up by players as
symbolic have to be in global systems. If, for example, there
were 50 different ways to combine fruit to make desserts but
only five legal weapon/armor configurations, that would tell
players that combat was not as important as cookery in this
virtual world, or at least that cookery was more important than
they might ordinarily think.
35 This is why the manuals for virtual worlds don’t often go into detail;
besides, detail can be sold separately as a players’ guide.
862 Chapter 7
Depth effects can be more local. If the kobolds in one part of a
virtual world have no names and are of indeterminate age and
gender, yet the ones elsewhere have first names, surnames,
families, and children, this says that the ones here are not as
important as the ones elsewhere. If players notice this, they will
act on the information (although whether they choose to
emancipate or slay the unnamed kobolds is another matter, of
course).
Unfortunately, too few players are attuned to virtual world
design enough to realize that differences in breadth and depth
may be deliberate. They’ll see them as careless inconsistencies
or bugs. Actually, they may well be right a lot of the time and
they are bugs; this merely compounds the problem of using
breadth or depth to say anything beyond the basics of what
players are able to do and how doing these things affects the
virtual world. Breadth and depth, while something that
designers do build from the design atoms available to them,
don’t yet have the fidelity necessary to be used symbolically.
With atmosphere, at last, we have a way of using virtual world
mechanisms and objects as symbols that players actually
interpret as symbols.
Atmosphere is the means by which designers influence players’
moods. It can be active (for example, it tells the players they are
in danger), passive (for example, it puts players at ease), or
interactive (conducive to exploitation by players). Atmosphere is
used to
• Signal the start or end of an action sequence.
• Signal a breathing space during an action sequence.
• Throw players off their guard, ready for a big surprise.
• Warn or encourage players.
• Reward or punish players.
• Hint at what is to come.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 863
• Facilitate various social activities.
• Make a philosophical or ethical point. (This may or may
not be in combination with any of the above.)
Some obvious ways to suggest atmosphere are
• Open versus closed form. Cramped areas restrict choice,
wide areas open it up; dungeons are more oppressive
than wilderness. When players enter a very narrow
passage or descend underground stairs, they know their
options are being limited; if they continue, it symbolizes
their readiness to accept the danger. When players enter
a vast plain, they know their options are maximized; if
they continue, it symbolizes their readiness to accept
responsibility.
• Lightness versus darkness. The less you know, the more
easily you’re spooked. The same applies to other sensory
information that the virtual world supplies: Sudden
silence is also spooky. When players find that the light
levels are falling, they can interpret this as a warning. If
they keep on going, they are accepting the challenge of
whatever awaits them. If they see light at the end of the
tunnel, it tells them their ordeals are nearing their end.
• Vistas versus corners. Corners hide information. You
know the information is there, but you don’t know what
it is. The less you’re told, the more you want to learn—
but the more you fear you won’t like what you discover.
A passageway that has a number of short, sharp turns
increases the sense of urgency; a long, straight
passageway reduces it36. On the other hand, a vista can
36 Textual worlds can use long and short descriptions to achieve this kind of
pacing, too. If a room has a minimal description, it takes less time to read it;
you therefore leave for the next room quicker, which ups the tempo even if
you’re actually only traveling in a straight line.
864 Chapter 7
symbolize the distance of goals: You emerge from the
trees to see a vast tract of open country, on the far
horizon of which you can just make out the spires of the
City of Bronze. The designer is showing you what you’ll
have to go through to get there: By proceeding, you’re
reaffirming your goal.
• Familiarity versus alienness. A sudden change of terrain or
architecture can induce either relief or a sense of unease.
The more sudden the change, the greater the impact.
This may look like a regular Middle Eastern bazaar, but
when it gives way to a snowfield there’s a jarring of
expectations. This is not a normal bazaar. Do you
investigate, or do you get out before anything dreadful
happens? More gradual changes can serve to label areas:
The more spiky the architecture, the more spiky the
inhabitants37. The same technique can be used on a
smaller scale. Your blacksmith’s hammer breaks, you get
a new one, it happens all the time; this time, though, the
replacement hammer changes its appearance the first
time you use it, and makes a noise different to that of
regular hammers. It tokenizes the unknown: Do you
explore it, or shy away?
• Ease versus difficulty. In the big city, you’re asked to
deliver bread; in the frontier town, you’re asked to kill
bandits. Can you stand the heat, or do you get out of the
kitchen? By giving players harder quests in rougher
areas, designers inform them that these are tougher
areas. If some NPC asks you to wipe out a nest of
vampires and you refuse, you’ve nevertheless been told
that this is the kind of place where there are nests of
37 MUD1 used time as a metaphor for danger. The more contemporary a
scene (up to about the 1930s), the safer it was. The really dangerous places
were flagged by their great age. This imbued areas with an atmosphere that
players were immediately able to pick up on (even though most didn’t
recognize the symbolism explicitly).
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 865
vampires. If you go wandering off on your own, you can’t
say you weren’t warned. The quests act as notices that
players should heed.
• Large versus small. Big monsters are strong monsters; tall
NPCs are authoritative NPCs. Smaller monsters can be
dominated; smaller NPCs are servile. Tiny monsters may
be fast, poisonous, or otherwise awkward; tiny NPCs
have some hidden power. An impression of size can send
potent, primal messages to players. It’s why real-world
animals such as cats will try to make themselves look
bigger when facing off an opponent.
• Beauty versus ugliness. Breathtaking panoramas and
glorious palaces can generate feelings of awe and
wonder. Misshapen creatures and ruined buildings can
make an otherwise normal situation seem unpleasant.
Beauty represents success, ugliness failure; beauty
goodness, ugliness evil. It operates at different levels (the
superficially beautiful can be ugly deep down, and vice
versa), but the symbolism remains the same. This is one
area where the players call the shots: They’ll assume
beauty to be indicative of goodness, safety, aspiration,
and so on even if the designer just wants to make their
world look better than competing virtual worlds.
There are many others, too. Intense colors mean warmth,
vibrancy, and action, whereas washed-out colors mean coldness,
placidity, and melancholy; changes over time can question the
permanence of your knowledge and your willingness to adapt.
Individual designers have their own styles of controlling the
atmosphere of locations and situations; all are subtly different.
Symbols can be combined and contrasted to create new
symbols: The alien can be beautiful; a corner can turn into the
light; warmth and softness can make a cramped space seem
secure. The priests of Gheen wear sumptuous gowns but
disfigure their faces with hideous scars.
866 Chapter 7
Designers place the symbols in context; players interpret them
and divine the context. Thus, we have a basic chemistry for our
critical aesthetic.
The Story of Story
Symbols of atmosphere react with “adjacent” symbols, but in a
non-linear fashion. Linearity can be enforced (for example, by
making characters “run a gauntlet”), but this is itself an
expression of atmosphere. Non-linearity is good for making
statements, but bad for advancing arguments. Is there some
other way that symbolism can be introduced such that it can be
structured in a linear (and therefore more contributory)
fashion?
Narrative
The way that both film and computer games handle this is
through narrative. Film is the more structured: The scenes in a
screenplay link causally to tell a story (generally in a classic,
three-act form). Syd Field’s famous analysis38 of script form puts
act I at pages 1–30, act II at pages 30–90, and act III at pages
90–120. Around pages 10–15 will be an inciting incident that
knocks the initially stable situation out of balance; around pages
25–27 will be a big event that gives the protagonist a goal;
around page 60 will be a pinch point where the protagonist
becomes fully committed; around pages 85–90 will be a crisis
point where all seems lost; the resulting showdown lasts until
about page 115, then the story wraps up with a realization
section where the audience can see how events have grown the
38 Syd Field, Screenplay: The Foundations of Screenwriting. New York, Dell,
1979.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 867
protagonist as a person. The position of the later events can slip
a little, but many professional screenplay readers really will look
at pages 25–27 and reject a script if it doesn’t have a big event
there.
Virtual worlds don’t—can’t—have this degree of narrative
control, because players don’t follow scripts. However, some
causality can be introduced, and it can be done in such a way as
to stimulate emotional or other involvement in players. It is
important to realize that virtual worlds do not have, nor ever
can they have, narrative in the conventional sense. They’re
places. Players can act out narratives of their own within them,
but the virtual worlds can’t impose a three-act structure or
anything like it. Nevertheless, they can do some things. Here’s
their full narrative spectrum:
• Non-fiction. Changes are introduced without any
explanation. One day a new area, spell, class, or weapon is
available that wasn’t available yesterday. There’s no
explanation, it just happens. This may be in response to
player suggestions or complaints, or it may have been
planned from the beginning but omitted so that the
virtual world could meet its launch date—whatever. The
change is made with no supporting context, therefore
any meaning that players read into it can only be
intrinsic to it. “Oh, there’s a new class of bards. They
must want to give role-players more choice.”
• Backstory arcs. These are narrative tricks intended to
explain a virtual world’s prehistory, and are the mainstay
of regular computer games. The better worlds use them
to add richness and depth, explaining why things are as
they are; the worse ones retro-fit a backstory to make
illogical gameplay features seem logical. If a virtual
world’s initial configuration is constructed to echo
events of a fictional past, this can be a great aid to
immersion. When it’s to erect some façade to justify why
868 Chapter 7
characters don’t die, or why magic-users can’t wield
swords, or why artifacts exist that no one can make,
that’s less satisfactory. The backstory should come first,
not second. Unfortunately, so many virtual worlds now
use the retro-fit approach that players are growing
accustomed to it. This means that backstory is often
merely a designer’s commentary on their creation, rather
than an inherent part of it.
• Idea arcs. With these, events occur that give players
things to do, but they are not related to any central
theme. Individual mini-dramas may be played out by the
eruption of a volcano, an invasion by teeming hordes of
monsters, a failure of the grain harvest, or whatever, but
the events that trigger them are not part of any central
narrative. Designers can make statements through
these—for example, about the transience of all things or
about their own ambivalent feelings concerning their
powers—but these would be inserted as part of the
wider work, rather than as threads in a narrative.
• Story arcs. These consist of interlinked series of events.
The volcano erupts because the dwarfs dug too deep in
their search for gold. The disaster awakens the ancient,
half-remembered demi-god who once ruled all, but who
was defeated in a cataclysmic battle and sealed beneath
the sacred mountain. Through the causality of the
events, the designer is making a point about the
consequences of unmitigated greed. Unfortunately, the
players have no say whatsoever in it: The drama unfolds
whether they like it or not; they must react to the change
in circumstances that the unfolding events dictate, but
they can’t affect even the timing of what follows: A
monthly patch is a monthly patch.
• Responsive arcs. Here, the designer changes the narrative
in response to players’ reactions, much as a table-top
referee might. For large-scale virtual worlds with
multiple shards, this is very expensive as individual
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 869
shards can have divergent narratives39. Nevertheless, it
is the strongest narrative form available to virtual world
designers: It allows them to enter into a dialog with the
body of players, and if the trust is there, it allows for
expression on both sides40
.
• 360 degree arcs. There is a narrative path, but it’s circular.
Players are involved in a perpetual struggle, sometimes
making gains and sometimes making losses, but never
able to achieve final victory or defeat. They’re locked into
a story that never changes. Whatever the designer may
be trying to say with this technique, the players will
eventually conclude that the struggle is meaningless. If
that’s how newbies see it too, the virtual world could end
up in trouble.
• Player arcs. The virtual world is richly featured enough
that players themselves are empowered to create
personal narratives through their own ongoing actions.
Designers get to give them the tools and the space in
which to do this, but they don’t affect the narrative itself
directly. Thus, although they can make statements by
what they give the players to work with, they can’t tie
these into a story; that’s for the players to do.
From this we can see that it is possible for virtual world
designers to construct a narrative, but there are a number of
barriers. Players don’t like being treated like ants whose nest is
being stirred up for the amusement of some kid with a long
stick. If a volcano is set to erupt every once in a while pseudorandomly, that’s one thing; if it’s set to erupt because the live
team say so, that’s another thing altogether. The same event
39 The problem is not as bad if arcs are kept short so there’s little opportunity
for them to diverge.
40 There is a good introduction to this topic in Jessica Mulligan’s Show Me the
Path. Skotos, Biting the Hand, November 2002.
http://www.skotos.net/articles/BTH_38.shtml.
870 Chapter 7
begs different interpretations based on the perceived intent of
its creator. It’s not enough for the designer to say that the event
is what matters and it’s for players to construct their own
meaning from it. Players (through their characters) are directly
affected by the event, and their understanding of it is heavily
moderated by the notion of deliberateness.
Say I walked into an art gallery containing a paint gun
installation. I know the paint gun will shoot at random intervals,
and I can construct some statement about the nature of risk
from that. If I walk in front of it and get hit, well, that’s going to
make me ponder on it some more. If, however, I walk in front of
it and the artist presses a button that makes it shoot me, the
conditions from which I construct my meaning are different.
Yes, I get hit by the paint gun in both cases, and yes, the artist
set up the paint gun the same way both times. However, being
hit at random is not the same as being hit deliberately.
So it is with virtual worlds. Imposed storylines mean reduced
freedom. Through narrative, designers can explore important
issues; however, by forcing players to participate in those
narratives the issues change.
Story elements can be added in reaction to what players do. For
example, if a bunch of characters mine deep into a mountain
they could encounter a colony of dwarfs or dark elves or
crystalloids. It’s hard to predict in advance when (if ever)
players would dig deep into a particular mountain, and harder
to list all the other possible things they may do that could
reasonably lead to new content; for these reasons, it’s therefore
not usually worth hard-coding bespoke content into a virtual
world. However, it may be worth building a pool of content that
can be released when appropriate to advance players’ stories.
These also can be used by the live team to spice up a waning
incarnation of a virtual world, for example—when some
überguild is enforcing a dreary
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 871
status quo.
The main difficulty with this form of interactive content
provision is that many players resent the fact that there’s
someone pulling the strings and will level accusations of
favoritism or victimization. “Hey, I dug a hole in this mountain
over here, how come you didn’t give me any dwarfs?” Players
like to think that the world is fair; interference by the live team
in response to the reactions of individual players is unfair.
Basically, they trust the code to be impartial but they don’t trust
the live team to be so (except in very refined worlds). The new
content inevitably becomes symbolic of the management’s
disregard for players, regardless of whether it has some other,
greater interpretation.
I’ve discussed narrative thus far on the global scale. Where
narrative most often occurs is on the local scale, primarily
through quests. In these, players as individuals are targeted by
the narrative, rather than players as an amorphous group. Thus,
although the designer is talking to fewer people with each
narrative, what is said can be more finely tuned to those people.
The different degrees at which independent narrative episodes
can be sustained are:
• Puzzles. These are fixed in their location and solution; a
standard maze is the classic example. Puzzles provide a
search-space framework for branching narratives. Their
inflexible nature means they can cover predetermined
narratives in greater depth, but at the expense of becoming
uninteresting very rapidly. Once solved, they’re solved.
• Static quests. These have standard locations and goals, but
allow some open-endedness in their solution. They’re
generally mindless and repetitive because they’re targeted
at newbies rather than at more experienced players. Because
newbies undertake them, though, designers will use the
opportunity to promote shared cultural contexts. Although
872 Chapter 7
the narrative possibilities may therefore be reduced to
making general statements about the nature of the virtual
world, they nevertheless lay the groundwork for more
sophisticated forms of expression that players may
encounter later.
• Dynamic quests. These change every time in locations or
goals or both. They serve gameplay purposes only, and
rarely matter beyond their existence. Although the means by
which they are generated may be symbolic, the quests
themselves can’t be so as they have no direct human input in
their construction.
• Chained quests. These are a series of interlinked quests, each
one leading to a new, usually greater one. They may be
plotted manually by a designer or dynamically by an AI, or in
combination. There is greater scope for narrative here with
the potential to make an impact on individuals; even AIgenerated chained quests can conform to a predefined
concept, such as whether it matters more to rescue a friend
or save a village of strangers. Chained quests can be used as
part of an overall story arc, or to introduce new spells,
resources, or whatever that would otherwise appear without
reason.
• Player quests. The virtual world is so broad and deep that
players can find things to give each other to do. This is the
emergent gameplay approach, which is good for the players
(those with the desire to participate) but allows for no
narrative content on the part of the designers other than in
the form.
Narrative is seen as an important artistic feature that is often
lacking in computer games; by extension, virtual worlds are also
often criticized for their lack of story (except those who have it,
which are criticized for the quality of the story). Implicit in this
is the elitist notion that players aren’t all that good at
storytelling, therefore anything that emerges from their actions
is not going to be compelling; better to find the people who are
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 873
best at storytelling and have them write the stories for
everyone.
I don’t dispute that some people are better at storytelling than
others. The question is, what is storytelling’s place in virtual
world design? Are people participating to be part of someone
else’s story, or to be a part of their own? In the major part of this
book, I have argued strongly in favor of the latter. Virtual world
designers may use narrative as a way of joining related concepts
into a coherent whole, but these can only ever be steps along the
way of a player’s personal narrative, which is what they make of
themselves. Virtual worlds that impose narrative—even
narrative written by a famous author—are overlooking what
virtual worlds are about.
Why Story Arcs Don’t Work
Most narrative art forms are passive, in that the audience
doesn’t participate directly in their creation. An author may be
creating a novel to speak to a particular group of people, but can
only estimate how they will respond, and thus how the novel
should be changed as a result of this imagined response. In
virtual worlds, the audience can in theory participate to the
point of collaboration. Are they part of the work? Are they part
of the production? Are they neither, or can they be both41?
In most virtual worlds, the dialogue between designer and
player is indirect. Players can influence production from the
beta test onward, but as individuals only in very minor ways.
Some virtual worlds do go as far as to give the player body
control over the actual programming, but most don’t. The fact
that LambdaMOO famously introduced this has created a false
impression among researchers that the practice is widespread.
41 In which case, it is interesting to speculate how they might symbolize
themselves.
874 Chapter 7
It is not. Commercial virtual worlds in particular would
consider this degree of player involvement in production insane.
Players may be part of production within the context of the
virtual world, but not of the virtual world itself.
It is the question of whether players are part of the work that is
more contentious. As I mentioned earlier, I don’t regard the
objectification of players as by definition a bad thing; after all, I
don’t expect road construction engineers to look on me as
anything other than a driving statistic, so if a designer looks on
me as a bandwidth statistic at some point, fair enough. The
objection comes when this is done inappropriately; in particular,
players do not like being thought of as components of someone
else’s art installation. If a virtual world is advertised as being
such, they can hardly complain, of course (any more than can an
actor in a play); indeed, it may be that over time players gain a
maturity and understanding that allows them to appreciate the
skill of the storyteller more fully. They would then become more
akin to an improvisational theater group rather than players of
virtual worlds, though. Sure, there’s a place for this kind of art,
but it’s not a place that appeals to the reasons players play.
Designers who want virtual worlds to have storylines usually
cite from the following reasons:
• It keeps people playing, because they want to find out what
happens next.
• The virtual world seems richer, more immersive, and more
vibrant.
• New content can be introduced that would be fictionbreaking otherwise—for example, a new race of lizard
people.
• Pre-planned, higher-level content can be released in a
controlled manner.
• It provides cover for nerfs and bug-fixes.
• It lets players know they haven’t been forgotten.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 875
• It demonstrates the design team’s creative credentials.
• It helps market the virtual world.
• There is increased opportunity for tie-in books and other
merchandise, arising from having more intellectual
properties.
• It’s de rigeur.
These look reasonable enough, but there are some serious flaws:
• Either the player is impotent or the arc is derailable.
• You can follow the story without playing. I know a
former Asheron’s Call player who got wrapped up in the
story but not the world; she now follows it from web
sites.
• People don’t like coming in on a narrative after it has
started.
• Players like to create stuff of their own more than they
like to see what other people have created—whatever its
artistic merits.
• Explorers don’t mind new content being added, but
dislike having to check over changed old content. They
much prefer to be told explicitly what changes have been
made, rather than having to deduce them from some
piece of story.
• Player actions are limited by future storyline
considerations. You can’t build here because there’ll be a
castle on this spot four months from now.
• The more story that designers add to a virtual world, the
less world there is, because the world is constrained by
the story42
.
• What happens when the story arc ends? Everyone quits
and plays some other game? Or does the arc never end?
42 I do mean story here, not fiction. A virtual world based on a book can be
incredibly detailed, so long as it adheres only to the fiction and not the story.
876 Chapter 7
• Players’ destinies are not under their control, nor can they
ever be. A hero’s journey in such circumstances is
nonsensical.
Even without these objections, there are practical difficulties
concerned with writing a narrative for virtual worlds. Stories in
most cultures of the world traditionally follow the classical
three-act structure of beginning, middle, and end. As noted
previously, if you try this for a virtual world it means there’s an
end. This is fine if the story is one of many stories that make up
a player’s experience, but it’s not good if the virtual world is
itself the story. The three-act structure is replaced by a
recursive structure instead:
• A single, beatable individual is identified as the enemy. It’s
not the police state that’s trying to crush you, it’s one
particular member of the secret police.
• You identify the enemy, collect the plot tokens, and defeat
them. But they were just a pawn, controlled by the real
enemy!
• Variant: They aren’t really dead! They come back bigger and
stronger!
• Recurse.
This is the conspiracy theory approach: When in doubt, widen
the conspiracy. Eventually, the whole world ends up as a
conspiracy and then you have nowhere to go. It’s a narrative
trap.
Oh well, you can cross that bridge when you come to it.
Designer-level narrative has a place in virtual worlds, as a
method of delivering content, information, and/or meaning. It is
very good for presenting and identifying symbols. It is hopeless
for presenting and identifying choice. Sparks, yes; arcs, no.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 877
The fact is, any virtual world that places designer-driven story
above players’ personal stories is a prison. This is why story arcs
don’t work.
The Koster-Vogel Cube
At the 2001 Game Developers Conference, Raph Koster and Rich
Vogel introduced43 their well-received storytelling cube as a
model for describing the various ways by which players can
experience virtual world event sequences as narratives. The
following year, they explored it in more detail44. Their model
classifies the elements that make up narratives along three
binary dimensions:
• Control. Is the story told by the designer, or does it arise
from player interactions?
• Context. Does the story arise more from real-world
events or from the virtual world itself?
• Impact. Are the story’s effects short-lived or lasting?
These dimensions give eight possible combinations:
• Designer/in context/static. All content exists at the beginning,
and players uncover it. Example: Majestic.
• Designer/in context/dynamic. Designer-created content is
delivered episodically, possibly making major changes.
Example: Asheron’s Call.
43 Raph Koster and Rich Vogel, Online World Design Patterns. San Jose,
Proceedings Game Developers Conference, 2001.
http://www.legendmud.org/raph/gaming/despat_files/frame.htm.
44 Raph Koster and Rich Vogel, Storytelling in the Online Medium. San Jose,
Proceedings Game Developers Conference, 2002.
http://www.legendmud.org/raph/gaming/gdc_2002_Storytelling_
files/frame.htm.
878 Chapter 7
• Designer/out of context/static. This recognizes real-world
events as part of its fiction—for example, Christmas
holidays. Example: Ultima Online.
• Designer/out of context/dynamic. Designers attempt to weave
any new features they add into a consistent narrative.
Example: Achaea.
• Players/in context/static. Players role-play in the designers’
world. Example: EverQuest.
• Players/in context/dynamic. Players role-play in the
designers’ world, and through their actions can change that
world in major ways. The designers adjust the context to
take account of the events. Example: Castle Marrach.
• Players/out of context/static. Things the players do for their
own reasons, irrespective of what the context says they
should do. They tell each other stories that make myth of
their adventures; they go on themed jungle crawls. This is
the default player activity.
• Players/out of context/dynamic. Players act outside of any
designer-driven plot, but through their own actions can
cause important and permanent changes to the virtual
world. Example: Lineage.
The idea behind the Koster-Vogel cube is that it helps virtual
world designers conceptualize what kind of virtual world they
want; it lays bare the narrative choices that are open to
designers. The cube has certainly proven effective in this regard,
but I have a few misgivings about it.
My main complaint is that the dimensions seem to change their
meanings. Players can role-play in Asheron’s Call as much as
they can in EverQuest, so why is EQ classified as having playerdriven narrative when AC isn’t? The main difference between
the two in storytelling terms is that AC gives (the designers’)
stories more impact than does EQ’s static “vision,” so what’s the
justification for having differences in two dimensions instead of
just one? Similarly, Ultima Online’s players role-play more than
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 879
EQ’s and arguably have a stronger ability to determine their
own destinies, so why is UO designer/out of context/ static and
not player/out of context/static? Perhaps EQ should be in the
designer/in context/static sub-cube instead (or perhaps it
should be acknowledged that virtual worlds can be in more than
one sub-cube at the same time).
The context axis is especially tricky: I’d have thought the way
Achaea strives to weave real-world events (such as the
appointment of a new administrator) into its fiction would make
it a more in-context world than one like EQ that presents the
events with no in-context explanation at all. But if the “out of
context” flag means “giving in-context meaning to real-world
events,” how does that agree with the default player activity
sub-cube? There, players are not making any reference to realworld events, just to the in-context events that occur through
their own determination of their story. Personally, I think the
context axis is weaker than the other two; it’s a distraction, and
the model makes better sense if reduced to two dimensions
(impact and control).
To illustrate my point, where would MUD1 fit in this scheme?
Well it had real-world events programmed in, so that means it’s
out-of-context (even though most of the time those events were
dormant). It was reset-based, so any story impact was static.
Control of narrative events was in the hands of the players,
operating in the space of events made possible by the design.
This suggests that MUD1 should be placed in the default player
activity cube. This may well be correct: MUD1 had no backstory.
What difference would it have made if it had one, though? Bear
in mind that if I hadn’t added the real-world holiday stuff to
MUD1, it would appear in the same sub-cube as EQ (which does
have a backstory of sorts—more than MUD1 does, anyway).
Back in Chapter 1, “Introduction to Virtual Worlds,” I discussed
persistence versus change as a way to categorize virtual worlds.
880 Chapter 7
The Koster-Vogel cube’s impact dimension is roughly the same
as persistence, and its control dimension is roughly the same as
change (or player impact45). There is a difference between incontext building and out-of-context building, but it’s not
orthogonal to the other two dimensions; in particular, the
groups of players able to build in-context in a world may differ
from those that can build out-of-context in the same world.
The Koster-Vogel cube looks at virtual worlds as a medium for
storytelling, and as such succeeds. It is, however, neutral
concerning the likely success or otherwise of a virtual world
that follows any particular classification. Designers using the
cube should bear this in mind; in particular, virtual worlds with
overarching designed-in storylines (as opposed to opt-in, optout mini-narratives) face a long struggle.
The Place of Narrative
Virtual worlds are places, not stories. You can have a story
about New York, or a story set in New York, and New York can
have a history, but New York is not itself a story unless you
stretch the definition of “story” so far that it loses all meaning46
.
The same applies to virtual worlds: Trying to impose a story on
the inhabitants of a virtual world is as sensible as trying to
impose a story on the inhabitants of New York. You can impose
events, but not stories; people make their own stories.
45 I mention the alternative term here only so as to point out that “impact”
can be used to refer to two different things: The long-term effect a story has
on the world and the inclusivity of storytelling ability.
46 The other extreme is to narrow the meaning of “story” so much that most
of what players would describe to one another as a story wouldn’t count. In
Hamlet on the Holodeck, for example, Janet H. Murray looks at narratives in
virtual worlds as fitting within traditional forms of narrative. This assumes
that interactivity is entirely “in character” and players have goals determined
by the world rather than by themselves. The result is a much tighter
judgment of what constitutes narrative in virtual worlds.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 881
The designers of virtual worlds write the history, either
explicitly (as a piece of prose) or implicitly (in the design). This
gives the initial context, at which point the designers cede
narrative control to the players whether they want to or not.
Through play, the players write their own stories, but only to
the extent they do in real life; there’s nothing intrinsic to virtual
worlds that makes player actions any more “storytelling” than
real-life actions. You do things, things happen, you recount
these happenings to other people: story.
Virtual world designers can’t add story, they only can add
content. Content provides experiences that can be made by
those who come through or observe them into story. If the
content itself is story, players’ own stories become worthless
incidentals.
Narrative is linear. Virtual worlds are not linear. You can’t
control the order in which players do things without railroading
them, removing significant freedoms. There is only one path
into the past, and thence comes story; there are infinite paths
into the future. Virtual world designers build a bagatelle board
and release the ball, but have no way of knowing where it is
going to land. If they did, where would the fun be?
Episodic release of content is guaranteed its place in narrative
theory, but the real reason for its existence is purely practical:
Developers want to stop players from getting bored. Dressing it
up as story is merely a handy conceit. Any developers who
believe otherwise are deceiving themselves (and their players).
Some content needs to be added for other reasons: Virtual
worlds continually need fine-tuning; real-world occurrences can
have an impact on the virtual world that requires an in-context
explanation. In these cases, content can be slipped in such that
it disrupts the world’s fiction less, but it does still disrupt it. It
882 Chapter 7
adds another peg to the bagatelle board, and no amount of hand
waving or appealing to artistic imperatives can disguise the
fact.
The Critical Aesthetic in Use
Let’s return to the concept of a critical aesthetic. How is it used?
How is it developed? Do different virtual world architectures
give rise to different aesthetics? If so, is there any crossfertilization between them or are they immiscible?
The Job of the Critic
Films have critics, computer games have reviewers, but what do
virtual worlds have? Virtual worlds have rant sites.
That’s not entirely fair; the main listings sites for textual worlds
do carry player-written reviews that are often thoughtful and
insightful (and not necessarily written by people with a vested
interest in making prospective players either play or fail to play
the world in question). For graphical worlds, though, with their
much bigger player bases, rant sites rule.
When it comes down to it, virtual worlds are places. In the real
world, if you want to go on vacation somewhere you buy an upto-date guidebook before you go. The guidebook tells you all you
want to know, using language you can understand, in a
reasonably unbiased manner. Virtual worlds do have
guidebooks that you can buy, but as I mentioned earlier these
are usually just extensions of the manual (and they’re not
necessarily up-to-date). If you have a real-world guidebook for
Egypt, you may on the strength of reading it want to go there
even more; if you have a guidebook for a virtual world, it’s
because you’ve already been there but couldn’t get to grips with
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 883
it. Unfortunately, if you scan through the articles on a rant site
for either Egypt or for a virtual world, you’re only ever going to
come away with misgivings.
Rant sites are almost non-stop interpretation and criticism.
Sometimes the criticism is constructive47, often it is justified,
but always it is biting. To paraphrase Mr. Burns in The Simpsons,
rant sites “know what they hate.”
Much of the criticism that rant sites direct at virtual worlds is
non-comparative. You have to decide which virtual world you
want to try on the basis of whichever attracts the fewest
complaints on subjects that matter to you. Occasionally, they do
describe virtual worlds in terms of one another, but this is
normally to petition for the inclusion or removal of a feature on
the grounds that some other virtual world has or doesn’t have
it. Normally, though, the comments are prescriptive and fairly
self-centered: This is what the virtual world should be like so
that people like me will enjoy it. Nevertheless, individual writers
do have consistent opinions, and if you find one whose views
agree with yours on something you know about, it makes
eminent sense to consult them when it comes to something you
don’t know about.
The problem that a critic/reviewer of virtual worlds has is that
these take a lot of time to get to know. Food critics only have to
eat in a restaurant once to be able to fill half a page of newsprint
with colorful invective; film critics can watch five movies a day.
Even computer game reviewers diligent enough to play
something all the way through will rarely have to spend more
47 On occasion it can be positively euphoric if a new virtual world looks to be
significantly different. This enthusiasm rarely lasts long, however, as design
flaws become apparent. Rant sites want to like virtual worlds, and are
predisposed to do so; their cynicism comes from the disappointment of being
frustrated time and time again.
884 Chapter 7
than a week at it48. Virtual world reviewers can only do a good
job if they take months—and then, having invested so much of
themselves in the world, they have the problem (common to
ethnographers) of disconnecting from their subject matter
enough to write about it objectively.
When reviewers manage to do this, they are capable of writing
excellent critiques. It can be very difficult making these
accessible to non-players, though. It’s like reading the blurb of
book six in a Fantasy series that you haven’t read books one
through five of: “After the fall of Khanex, Modorph’s future looks
secure. But now the Jeek-riders of Xethen threaten the southern
borders and Wachel roam the Dillith Marches. Can Luth and his
Darok blade, Shaash, ever ….” So it is with virtual worlds: To
explain what is truly wrong or right with one, it’s often only
possible to do so with reference to things that people may only
understand having experienced them.
There are exceptions, of course. Back in Chapter 1, I described
the ways by which virtual worlds are readily categorized from a
newbie-friendly historical perspective; such information is often
sufficient to put off people trying one or cause them to look at it
in more detail. This hardly amounts to criticism, though.
Another technique, favored mainly by researchers rather than
reviewers, is to play a virtual world for a few evenings to get a
sense of its look and feel, then interview players to form a
picture of what life is like after six months. This can be useful,
and the critic’s ability to collate and summarize opinion comes
to the fore. Unfortunately, it’s not always easy obtaining a
representative sample of players: A higher proportion of the
ones you bump into or who respond to interview requests seem
48 Many can’t do this anyway, even if they want to, because to get their
articles written so that publication coincides with the game’s release, they’re
often provided with beta copies that may still suffer from a few, er, glitches.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 885
to have a chip on their shoulder than is statistically correct.
Nevertheless, an experienced reviewer can account for this,
knowing it will happen. This is one of many reasons why I am
very excited by the (as I write this) impending re-launch of the
print magazine Massive Online Gaming49, the first issue of which
(before it hit publisher problems) was hugely impressive.
The role of the rant-site critic in virtual worlds is large in terms
of forming player opinion, but small in terms of relevance to
prospective new players. If you’ve grown disenchanted with one
world and want to try a different one, or if you’re a total newbie
looking for somewhere to start out, a rant site won’t help50
.
Intelligent reviewers can be invaluable guides, but ultimately
you need a means to assess virtual worlds yourself. This must be
both accessible and supportive of a Theory of Virtual Worlds to
which you give allegiance. The theory gives the ideal; the
experience gives the reality; the critical aesthetic connects the
two.
Perhaps one day virtual worlds will have travel guides, written
by independent correspondents whose job it is to report on
them. Until then, however, players are essentially on their own.
Content Created by Players
Back in Chapter 1, I described the two mechanisms by which
players can add content: Within context and without context. In
my discussion thus far, I’ve assumed that any content added by
regular players within context, as with house building in Ultima
Online. What are the implications of allowing them to add it
49 http://www.mogonline.com/.
50 Indeed, because they concentrate more on what’s wrong than what’s right,
a rant site is probably the last place anyone wanting to find a good virtual
world should look.
886 Chapter 7
without context, as with arbitrary room construction in
LambdaMOO?
A first observation is that allowing players to build out of
context passes control of the critical aesthetic to those who
consume it. This implies accessibility, removing the
pretentiousness and snobbishness that comes from artistic
elitism (which I’ve undoubtedly been guilty of demonstrating in
this chapter). One player’s opinion is just as good as any other
player’s opinion.
A second observation is that this critical aesthetic is recursive.
A player’s creation when considered as a work of art is
legitimate purely because it was created, not because it was
created in line with some theory. Thus, any theory that tried to
explain players’ creations would contradict its own existence.
The existence of worlds where players can build has
implications for virtual worlds where they can’t (and for which
the existence of a Theory of Virtual Worlds is less
problematical). It ensures that the theory can’t stray too distant
from the player, because otherwise it would be exposed as
distant. Players will create according to what they perceive as
the critical norms, but if those norms become too esoteric, then
they won’t. This gives designers of worlds where players can’t
build a ground wire. Naïve art may be naïve, but it’s still art—
and it’s art that informs designers’ own art. Virtual world
designers may be better at creating their art than the average
player, but it’s the average player who judges them. If the
average player lacks the critical faculties to appreciate the work,
it’s the designer who is asking too much, not the player who has
learned too little.
On the final day of the 2002 Game Developers Conference, there
was a panel discussion about the next generation of virtual
worlds. On the panel were Raph Koster, Rich Lawrence, Jessica
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 887
Mulligan, Jake Song, and Gordon Walton. Raph’s opinion was
that the next generation of virtual worlds would see much more
player-generated content. A question from the floor asked how
designers should deal with this, given that 99% of it would be
crap51
.
Gordon Walton summarized this as meaning that most people
have the desire to be creative, but not the skill. Raph Koster
turned it around, in a celebrated defense of the ability of players
to create: Players don’t care that 99% of everything is crap
because they see their own creations as being in the 1% that
isn’t. Virtual worlds give the ability to create art to people who
never had a platform for it before. People want to express
themselves, and in virtual worlds they can. Film directors,
writers, poets, and painters should get over themselves, because
the rest of the world is coming.
This is a rousing sentiment. Raph’s suggested first step to
achieving such a goal was to allow in-context creation in virtual
worlds, which allows for authorship within authorship; whether
in a large-scale virtual world this could ever be extended to
designer-level authorship is less clear, however52
.
Although I applaud the ideals involved here, I’m not convinced
they’ll work in practice (at least not as described). Players may
like to think their creations are in the 1% that is excellent, but
when they are disabused of the notion they will rarely be happy.
My elder daughter has a web site with cartoons on it that she
51 This is a misquotation of Theodore Sturgeon, who said that 90% of
everything is crud. Some sources report that he also added that the
remaining 10% is worth dying for.
52 There are worlds in development that attempt to address these problems.
Pirates of the Burning Sea (http://www.burningsea.com), for example,
envisages player-generated content being peer-reviewed for acceptance. I
remain skeptical, but am open to persuasion.
888 Chapter 7
has created for her friends53. She likes it, her friends like it, she’s
happy. Someone else I know has a web site with cartoons on it
that she hopes will attract the interest of animators54. The
cartoons are crap. Animators make polite noises, but no way are
they ever going to give her any money. She is frustrated, she is
unhappy, and every push she makes to convince anyone that her
work is good is met with yet more evidence to the contrary.
So long as people don’t set their sights too high when they
create things in virtual worlds, it’s fine. If they do—and this is
perhaps the default—then it turns sour.
There is an interesting possibility that virtual worlds can be
used as gateways to subworlds. This happens in some textual
worlds already, where there is an overarching “context” world
onto which players build their own public or private extensions;
it’s not yet the case for 3D graphical worlds, but that will surely
come55. Consider, for example, allowing players major build
powers within their own pocket zones in EverQuest 2: EQ2
would act as a gateway, providing plenty of content for newbies,
but players could build their own games within the game. Some
would be bad, some would be good, and some would be good
enough that people might even consider paying their creators
to enter them. In time, the host world need not have any
gameplay elements at all; it would merely act as a portal to the
worlds it supported. What would result would be a kind of
World Wide Web for streamed content, with players creating
places rather than pages, hyperspaces56 rather than hypertext.
Were such a system to evolve, the applicability of this book
53 http://www.jennybartle.com
54 URL not given, to protect me from her wrath.
55 Furcadia already does it for 2D worlds.
56 Unfortunately, because this word is used for a well-known Science Fiction
trope, I doubt it’s going to catch on here. “Hyperplace” would work, but place
is not analogous to text.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 889
would fall a level, because it assumes that virtual worlds are
self-contained. If they could contain or can connect to other
(arbitrary) virtual worlds, or if other worlds could connect
uncontrollably to it, the artistic integrity of the world as a whole
would be called into question (but not necessarily to its subworlds).
It’s also interesting to consider the impact on the hero’s journey
metaphor of making creation the primary activity in a virtual
world. People play virtual worlds to discover themselves. They
can do this through a hero’s journey or through the selfexpression that comes through art. Which of these does the
inherent nature of virtual worlds best support? Can they exist
side by side, or will one always dominate the other? Which is the
more effective? Which would keep people playing for longer?
Which can virtual worlds deliver in ways that other forums for
artistic endeavor can’t?
My Take on All This
Ideally, designers should create their world in such a way that
they never need to add new content. In practice, this can never
be. Nevertheless, new content should only be added to rectify
problems in the way that the world works—that is, bug-fixing,
balancing, and functional enhancing. Designers should not look
to add or change content—even for artistic reasons—if it is not
necessary57. All other content should be emergent from player
activities. This means you need a virtual world with enough
depth and breadth that players can, through the effects of their
own actions, create content for themselves, and for others. The
real world does it, so why can’t we? Players should have no
access to out-of-context content creation tools. Whether they
57 For an assessment of the consequences of over-tinkering, see Tenarius,
Welcome to the Player Wimping Guidebook! Or How to Dry Up your MUD in No
Time. 2000. http://www.memorableplaces.com/ mudwimping.html.
890 Chapter 7
have access to nontrivial in-context tools is open. This kind of
“hands off” world is what I was trying to create right at the
beginning with MUD1. Hopefully, some day someone will get
close to achieving it.
Narrative: You can only tell a story when it has ended.
Designers can create the obstacles, but the players themselves
must overcome them. Players may come across self-contained,
narratively driven sequences of events, but story arcs are out of
the question.
In the end, all that designers can do is load, take aim, and fire.
What happens after they pull the trigger depends on how good a
shot they are. They provide an environment, they seed a
starting culture (or multiple cultures), and then they yield
control to the players. Of course the virtual world needs
managing thereafter, because the nature does need nurture.
Artistic expression by the designer stops with the launch,
though.
This is my world. I created it. It’s my gift to you. Take it. Live in
it. Make of it what you will. It’s your world now.
The central theme of Arthurian myth is whether the king is for
the kingdom or whether the kingdom is for the king58. This has
a hugely important spiritual dimension, as Arthur is a metaphor
for the human soul. Merlin teaches Arthur with a view to his
becoming a king for the kingdom, but Mordred exploits the
relationship between Guinevere and Lancelot to cause Arthur to
use his kingdom for his own ends.
58 Charles W. S. Williams, The Crowning of Arthur. Taliessin through Logres,
London, Oxford University Press, London, 1938. He actually asks whether the
king is made for the kingdom or vice versa.
Towards a Critical Aesthetic 891
Are designers for their virtual worlds, or are virtual worlds for
their designers?
The answer is both. The king is for the kingdom; the kingdom is
for the king. They’re the same.
Locate, learn, apply, internalize: As characters reflect players, so
virtual worlds reflect their designers; as players learn from their
characters, so designers learn from their worlds. The more of
yourself that you, as a designer, put into a virtual world, the
more you become it and it becomes you. Your experiences will
develop the world’s, and its will develop yours.
The virtual world is your (the designer’s) exploration of yourself.
It’s your hero’s journey. The king is the kingdom. How could it
be otherwise?
892 Chapter 8
Chapter 8
Coda: Ethical
Considerations
I’m writing this short chapter because, believe it or not, the
designers of virtual worlds carry a responsibility for the
consequences of their designs. Real people play these worlds,
and the effects that a design has on them are real. Naturally,
players themselves are in many ways accountable for their own
actions: If you know that a virtual world has PD and you know
that experiencing PD can be distressing, then when you play in
that world and suffer PD and find it is distressing you can only
blame yourself. Nevertheless, designers ought to be aware when
some aspect of their design is likely to become an issue; its
inclusion then becomes an artistic statement, rather than
merely an element of gameplay.
This book is aimed at designers rather than players, so I’ll
primarily be exploring the moral and ethical considerations that
Coda: Ethical Considerations 893
arise concerning virtual world design1
. All these are still open
for debate: Where I express an opinion, that’s all it is, opinion;
your opinion is worth just as much as mine in such matters.
I don’t claim to have any answers here, just questions. They’re
questions that every designer of virtual worlds should ponder,
though. With power comes responsibility; designers have
power, therefore they must accept the responsibility that goes
with it.
A word of warning; this section only concerns virtual worlds
that do not have youngsters playing them. Virtual worlds that
are written for (or that can be expected to attract large numbers
of) children have a whole extra layer of ethical issues to their
design, about which I do not feel qualified to comment.
Censorship
The first topic I shall look at is that of censorship: The deliberate
exclusion of material that would warrant inclusion on purely
informative, artistic, or gameplay grounds. The libertarian
viewpoint is that all censorship is bad; everyone has a right to
free speech, whatever they want to say and to whomever they
want to say it. The common-sense interpretation of this is that
there are certain conditions where what is said can be
profoundly damaging (thus the libel laws) or dangerous
(shouting “fire!” in a crowded theater2
), and in these situations
1 This doesn’t mean that designers should ignore what players (or anyone
else) consider to be an unethical design; even if their point of view is highly
misconceived, they can still sue.
2 This assumes that there isn’t a fire in the theater, of course, or that the
shout doesn’t come from an actor delivering a line in character on the stage.
894 Chapter 8
free speech takes second place to some greater right. Otherwise,
people can say what they want3
.
There are still exceptions, though. Elizabeth Reid argues in a
paper4 about the ethics she employed when undertaking her
research into virtual worlds that she should perhaps have selfcensored some of the details that were given to her, even
though they were provided willingly by people in the knowledge
and expectation that they would be published. Her reasons for
this are that her discussion of JennyMUSH provoked such
interest among social scientists that they descended on it en
masse to study the community; needless to say, this put it under
such pressure that it almost fell apart. Legally—and ethically, as
far as the players were concerned—Reid had every right to
publish the details she did. Nevertheless, in retrospect she
wished she had MADE every quotation anonymous (even if that
meant being unable to use some of them) because then people
wouldn’t have been able to find JennyMUSH so easily and their
sheer number wouldn’t therefore have impacted it.
Currently, censorship in virtual worlds is performed almost
entirely by the designers. The marketing group may insist on
some changes, and licensed worlds have to remain true to the
franchise, but beyond that there is only the law of the land
(whatever “land” that may be). In the U.S., virtual worlds have
been able to pitch themselves as examples of free speech in
action, so they have been relatively free of legal interference. It
may be just a matter of time before a major test case comes to
3 A third point of view is that free speech is not an issue: A virtual world is a
place of business, and therefore its proprietors can legitimately refuse entry
to people whose business they don’t (or no longer) want. Players like to refer
to this as the “fascist” approach.
4 Elizabeth Reid, Informed Consent in the Study of Online Communities: A
Reflection on the Effects of Computer-Mediated Social Research. New York, The
Information Society Vol. 12 (2), Taylor & Francis, 1996.
http://venus.soci.niu.edu/~jthomas/ethics/tis/go.libby.
Coda: Ethical Considerations 895
court over violations of anti-hatred, libel/slander, or property
laws, but for the moment this has not occurred. This is in part
due to two factors:
• It’s fairly clear that virtual world operators are no more
responsible for what players say within them than
telephone companies are for what people say on phones.
They relay communication; they don’t publish it5
.
• Virtual world designers self-censor their virtual worlds
so that contentious or provocative content does not
appear.
So, let’s look at the kind of thing that might, at a glance, seem
legitimate material for virtual worlds but that never seems to
make it into them.
Unpleasantness
Some things are found unpleasant by enough of the population
that even though they accurately reflect reality it would cause
dissent were they to be included. Slavery, for example, was a
fact of human existence for millennia; even now, some countries
allow bonded labor that is slavery in practice if not in law.
So, you’re designing a virtual world set in the swashbuckling
Age of Piracy. Players take on the role of a buccaneer, sailing the
Caribbean in search of treasure, glory, and infamy. Within a
week of beginning your research, you (the designer) have come
to the conclusion that slavery was such an important part of
Caribbean trade and industry that were you to omit, it your
economic model would be missing a third of its goods. Do you
put it in, or leave it out?
5
It could be argued that virtual worlds create an environment that
encourages people to engage in hate language or whatever, but see the next
point.
896 Chapter 8
If your virtual world was for educational purposes, you’d
probably leave it in. If it was primarily for entertainment,
though…? The game Europa 1400: The Guild6
lets women become
Catholic archbishops, even though this somewhat undermines
its historical accuracy7
. Virtual world designers tend to do this
kind of thing too.
Unpleasant history is one example where self-censorship comes
in. Another is unpleasant present. In the 19th century, it was the
general consensus in the western world that men were stronger
and more clever than women. Now, it’s the general consensus
that men and women are of equal intelligence. What about their
comparative physical strength? Studies have shown that past
academic examinations and intelligence tests were invariably
biased in favor of men. Er, strength? Women and men may
emphasize different aspects of their intelligence, but neither one
gender nor the other is fundamentally the more intelligent. So
will you answer the question about strength? Women excel at
linguistic tasks, whereas men are good at spatial, and so on.
Most virtual worlds give men and women equal physical
strength, even though in reality women are palpably not as
strong8
. Some women are beefy enough to haul a truck, sure,
but not ones that look like the female avatars in EverQuest.
Those virtual worlds that don’t give female characters the same
strength as male characters will usually try to compensate by
making female characters shine at something else instead. It’s
all for show, though. Real-life, non-cosmetic differences in
gender and race are so charged with potential for problems that
6 Lars Martensen (lead designer), 4HEAD Studios, Europa 1400: The Guild.
Rottenmann Austria, JoWood Productions, 2002.
7
It’s not universally popular among Catholic players, either.
8 So powerful is the taboo against mentioning this that I’m actually
wondering whether I should write half a paragraph of disclaimers here.
Coda: Ethical Considerations 897
virtual world designers simply edit them out of their worlds
rather than suffer the political problems that come with
including them.
A third example of unpleasantness is that which is fine now but
which may not be in the future. Movies in the 1950s were full of
people smoking cigarettes, but today’s certainly aren’t. Virtual
worlds can have very long lives; what should designers omit
that might cause future offense?
It may seem foolish to speculate on these possibilities: how can
you know that something in your virtual world that is currently
acceptable will cease to be so in a few years’ time? In general, of
course, you can’t, but in some areas you can, particularly
terminology. For example, in this book I have referred to people
having same-sex orientation as “gay” and “homosexual.” It is
practically guaranteed that in 50 years’ time even the phrase
“same-sex orientation” will not meet with approval. The
situation is yet worse for describing different races: Whatever
currently prescribed term I use to describe a race or ethnic
grouping, the historical evidence is that in 50 years’ time I’m
going to appear a racist9
. It’s very tempting therefore for virtual
world designers to counter this by omitting anything that has a
track record of being controversial. This, of course, has other
consequences (that we shall come to later).
As a final remark on the subject of unpleasantness in virtual
worlds, it should be noted that the definition of
“unpleasantness” varies between real-world cultures. For
example, computer games that concern the hunting of wild
animals are big-sellers in the United States but aren’t even
released in the United Kingdom—there’d be a public outcry if
they were. Many examples of such “localization issues” exist;
9 Hi, readers in 2053. “African-American.” Was I right?
898 Chapter 8
designers must choose either to ignore them (and lose sales), to
make their presence switchable (which is expensive), or not to
put in any offending content in the first place (hey, there’s an
idea).
The Real as the Virtual (and Vice Versa)
Virtual worlds have their own communities and their own laws.
Some things that are depicted in virtual worlds are legal in the
context of that world, but would not be legal when practiced in
the real world. For example, a virtual world set in the time of the
British Raj may implement the Hindu custom of suttee, whereby
widows threw themselves onto the funeral pyres of their
recently deceased husbands. This would be allowed in the
virtual world, but it’s been all but stamped out in the real
world10
.
Other examples abound. Virtual worlds routinely allow murder
and the libeling of one character by another; some permit
cruelty to animals, some promote the use of narcotics. It’s one
thing to portray real-world crime as a virtual crime, as would be
the case in a virtual world set in prohibition-era Chicago. It’s
another thing, though, to make real-world crimes legal in their
virtual-world implementation. Nevertheless, this is quite
possible; in combat-oriented worlds, it’s even quite probable.
On the one hand, this distinctness from reality can be seen as a
freedom from oppressive real-world laws: You may need to have
your identity papers with you at all times in the real world, but
you don’t in a virtual one. On the other hand, it could be seen as
10 Although different cultures have different ideas about whether suicide is
right or wrong, few suggest that the enormous pressure sometimes put on
widows to enact suttee (to the extent that many were thrown onto their
husbands’ pyres) was acceptable.
Coda: Ethical Considerations 899
the dangerous encouragement of antisocial behavior: Whom
does it harm when an adult PC has virtual sex with a child NPC?
Although virtual worlds are generally more freedom-oriented
than the real world, there are a few occasions where the
situation is reversed. This is mainly because of restrictions that
the real world places on the virtual world. For example, what
two adults do in the privacy of their own bedroom is generally
no one’s business but theirs, yet the graphical depiction of this
behavior in a virtual world could well qualify as hard-core
pornography. Virtual worlds that show things that would be
illegal to broadcast to any television can rationally expect to be
closed down. Nevertheless, people doing those things in real life
are not breaking any laws11
.
Another issue is the manner in which real-life objects are
shown. Basically, you have more freedom to mess about with a
name-branded object in the real world than you do in a virtual
one. It used to be that if you wanted to show a brand in a
computer game, you had to pay the brand-owner; nowadays, it’s
more likely to be the other way around. These are mostly legal
issues, of course, and therefore not of direct relevance here.
Ethics become involved when things that can be recognized in
real life make an appearance in a virtual world against the
wishes of the people who own them.
11 For an extensive guide to the way that role-playing games handle (or can be
made to handle) the sex act, see: Various authors, The Complete Guide to
Unlawful Carnal Knowledge for Fantasy Role-Playing Games.
http://www.kanga.nu/mirrors/www.lysator.liu.se/%257Ejohol/netbooks/
CarnalGuide/carnal.txt.
For those who find it useful, the equivalent for alcohol use is: Various
authors, The Complete Guide to Alcohol for Fantasy Role-Playing Games.
http://www.kanga.nu/mirrors/www.lysator.liu.se/%257Ejohol/netbooks/
AlcoholGuide/AlcoholTCGTA.txt.
900 Chapter 8
For example, chase/combat game The Getaway incorporates a
3D model of central London built up from tens of thousands of
photographs. People who own the properties shown have no
right to object to this, under the same laws that apply to movie
shoots in streets. A virtual world could use similar real-world
data to produce an accurate visual model of some identifiable
portion of the real world. Property owners can’t complain (well,
they can, but the developers don’t have to listen). So what would
happen if a player took over a virtual building that in the real
world was a fast food franchise, then turned it into a brothel or a
drug den? Could the owners object after that? To whom? What
if shop-fronts displayed advertising logos for major
corporations that players then defaced. Would that be right
(because players are making a political statement in a virtual
world) or wrong (because logos are free speech even in virtual
worlds and defacing them is censorship)? Can designers deface
these, as they might if they were creating a post-apocalyptic
virtual world?
Supposing brands do appear with permission, players may still
use them immorally. If you buy enough cups of virtual cola, you
can lay them out in a pattern to look like any part of the human
anatomy you like. You can write words with them. You can put
them in demeaning contexts, such as public lavatories. Is it
ethical to do so? It’s ethical enough in the real world, as long as
you send the cans for recycling after you’ve made your point. In
a virtual world, though, you may be paying a smaller
subscription than you would be if the cola company hadn’t paid
for product placement. Doesn’t accepting the reduction in price
impose on you an obligation not to interfere with the message?
Virtual world designers handle these issues by self-censorship.
Except in certain key areas where public expectation is on their
side (for example, killing monsters), they avoid anything that
could raise major ethical issues. It’s understandable why they
would do this, of course, but it stifles debate. It’s left to the
Coda: Ethical Considerations 901
designers of small-scale worlds to push the boundaries, but all
too often they use off-the-shelf codebases that have already
made the decisions for them.
If you’re a virtual world designer looking for an area in which to
make your artistic mark, this could therefore be quite a fruitful
area.
Passive Censorship
Censorship is generally active: You have a design that includes
an element that you want, but you decide to take it out. If you
did nothing, there would be no censorship. However, on
occasion it can be passive: Information comes to light that is not
in the public domain, and by doing nothing you are keeping it
there. This amounts to censorship by inaction.
Here’s an example of what I mean.
Many virtual worlds have the concept of “guild ownership” of
property. Characters pay money or give objects to a guild, and
this can be used to obtain items collectively that individuals
could not own themselves; the guild is like a company in real
life—a legal entity that can be treated as a person in many
respects. Real companies have directors, guilds have leaders. So
what happens if the leaders decide to asset-strip the guild, then
close it down?
Most virtual worlds don’t account for this kind of activity. On
the face of it, why should they? If players sign up for a guild and
are ripped off by the leadership, well, that’s just the way of
things. Guilds are for groups of like-minded people; choose your
friends more wisely next time.
If it were only that guild leaders gave guild property to their
other characters, well, okay, a “dog-eat-dog” argument is
902 Chapter 8
perhaps tenable. What happens when they sell the stuff on eBay,
though? They could be a team working to a long-term plan,
inveigling themselves into other players’ confidences to
maneuver themselves into positions of power. Think this
sounds improbable? It’s happened; it’s probably happening right
now.
So, what does the developer do if they spot players ripping off
one another? If they do nothing, this would be a form of
censorship. So do they stop it? If it doesn’t break their terms of
service, on what grounds could they do that? They would be
breaking a trust. One solution would be to make a change to the
virtual world design so that there was always an audit trail
available and players can see where their stuff came from.
That’s somewhat unrealistic, though; it’s not going to please
characters who play as thieves in a PvP world, for example.
This is just one example of many. Censorship is the deliberate
exclusion of material, but that material does not have to be
tangible, and the decision not to act can be as censorious as the
decision to act.
Players as People
“It’s just a game.”
When you play a game and you know the rules and something
happens within those rules, you just have to accept it. You may
not like it that the other team scored the touchdown, but you
knew it was a possibility. All you can do is try harder.
This would be a fine analogy if virtual worlds were games.
They’re not, though: They’re places. Some activities may be
game-like, but not everything is. When players treat non-game
Coda: Ethical Considerations 903
behavior like it was a game, this can have a nasty impact on
other people in real life.
In normal computer games, you can do anything that the code
allows you to. This is not an attitude that extends to virtual
worlds, though. Most of the time it’s a good rule of thumb, but
sometimes the virtual world lets you do things that you
shouldn’t. As a trivial example, they aren’t coded to prevent
your saying things that in real life would constitute verbal
abuse.
Persona Issues
When people sign up to virtual worlds, they will have a number
of preconceptions as to what they can expect to happen to their
characters and what they can expect not to happen to them.
This may come from publicity, from what friends have told
them, or from a general sense of what “this kind” of product is
like. If they know the virtual world is “about” combat, they can
expect their character to kill things in it. If they don’t know
initially, but in the character creation system discover that
there is a wide range of combat options available, then they
should read this as a warning that nevertheless there is combat
in this world. If they don’t like the idea, they don’t have to play12
.
If something happens that could not be reasonably expected,
that’s of course a different matter. In many cases, it will be a
surprise—possibly even a pleasant one—but not an issue. You
didn’t know this Victorian Science Fiction game incorporated a
race of troglodytes, but hurray, you do now. In other cases, it
will be less pleasant but not emotionally damaging (for example,
forcing players to make their characters use the lavatory). In
some instances, though, it could be hurtful. The classic example
of this is rape.
12 It may be that they already paid before finding this out, though.
904 Chapter 8
As I explained in Chapter 6, there are occasions when players
are immersed to the extent that an assault on their character
feels like an assault on them personally. If they knew this was a
possibility before it happened, then no matter how bad it feels
when it does happen they can blame only themselves. If I sit in
the front row at the sea lion pool, I shouldn’t be surprised if I get
wet; if I play a virtual world with PD, I shouldn’t be surprised if
my persona gets killed. In either case, I should be surprised—
and possibly deeply injured—if I were raped. It doesn’t fit the
context; it’s not something I signed up for. Even if it did fit the
context (plenty of wars in the past involved rape and pillage, so
a brutally realistic historical world could perhaps justify
including it), an explicit warning would be a good idea: So few
worlds implement the concept of rape that it would come as a
shock to find that one did even if it made perfect sense in the
milieu.
Other real-world effects can also be disturbing. If you were to
chop off some character’s leg in combat, a reasonable result
might be that they couldn’t walk. Similarly, if you threw boiling
water in their eyes, you might blind them. Some people are
disabled in real life, and they could well play in your world. Is it
right to show their disability in a negative light like this? What
if their character suffers the same disability as the player? It’s
tiresome being deaf in real life13; why should anyone have to put
up with it in the virtual world, too? It’s not like virtual deafness
gives any great insight into the condition, so education is no
grounds for inclusion.
13 I speak from personal experience, having gone almost totally deaf at age 5.
Fortunately, surgeons were able to restore my hearing, the only lasting effect
being that I have difficulty determining what direction sounds come from.
Coda: Ethical Considerations 905
What about illnesses and diseases? If your virtual world
includes cigarettes, it might seem fun to give characters that
over-indulge lung cancer. Hey, it’s responsible, too, encouraging
people not to smoke. That’s not going to cut much ice with a
player whose grandmother just died of lung cancer, though.
Poisons also have to be handled thoughtfully: The sensibilities of
people whose relatives went to Nazi death camps must be
respected. I should point out that it’s by no means impossible to
incorporate these themes into virtual worlds; the difficult part is
doing so responsibly.
There are further examples of seemingly innocuous things in
virtual worlds that can have real-world effects on people. In
MUD2, there is (among other things) a piece of ham that
characters can eat to restore lost stamina. Should a real-life
vegetarian allow their character to eat the ham? Am I, having
put the ham there, hurting the feelings of vegetarians? Should I
remove it? Was I wrong ever to create it, knowing that it might
offend vegetarians14?
The problem with looking at the effects on players of virtual
events is, of course, that people can be affronted by practically
anything. Plenty of people in the real world are frightened of
spiders, so should there be no spiders in virtual worlds so as not
to alarm them? What about those people in the real world
unlucky enough to be afraid of oranges? They do exist: Should
their concerns not be given equal weight?
Personally, I take the view that the only morally consistent
approach is for designers to be true to their own beliefs. Do
what you want to do: If players don’t like it, they can stop
playing. General content warnings, like film classifications, can
14 I did know, too: I put it in deliberately, just to give vegetarians an
interesting dilemma.
906 Chapter 8
be used to forewarn people of what range of material they can
expect. Beyond that, though, it’s up to players to decide whether
they want to visit your world. Developers should not have to
take out product liability insurance for content any more than
publishers should have to for books. It’s for players to weigh the
odds of participation, not for designers to second-guess them.
Morality: Another candidate for inclusion in a critical aesthetic?
Privacy
Anything you do in a virtual world can be logged or snooped. In
commercial textual worlds, it probably will be; in graphical
worlds, cover is rarely 100% at the moment but will become so
eventually.
So, is this an invasion of privacy? No more than is a closedcircuit television system (CCTV) monitoring a shopping mall.
Indeed, it’s probably less so, given that log files are only usually
looked at when there’s been a complaint whereas CCTV cameras
are watched the whole time (in theory, at least).
Well, that’s one point of view.
Here’s another. If I (as a player) issue a string of profanities at
someone, impugning their real-life person, will they sue the
developer or me? They’ll sue me, because the developer will
argue15 that they are merely a common carrier with no control
over what their players say. That being the case, they should
need a wiretap warrant before they can record any of my
communications. If they log me otherwise, they’re accepting
responsibility for controlling what I say. They can’t claim I
consented to be monitored when I signed their terms of service
15 Note that this has yet to be tested in court, as far as I know.
Coda: Ethical Considerations 907
agreement: That would mean I was consenting to a form of selfincrimination, which is counter to human rights legislation.
Before this drifts too far away from morality toward legality,
here’s something else to think about. Suppose in a virtual world
you stand around in a reasonably private space chatting to a
friend. Both of you are adults, and both of you are okay with
using strong language. The moment anyone else appears in the
room, you tone down your vocabulary, but when they go you
start inserting profanities again. Is this ethical behavior or not?
Would it (still) be ethical if you knew that you were being
logged, and that an administrator might therefore come across
your gynecological language and be profoundly shocked? What
if it wasn’t the presence of rude words that was offensive but
your unorthodox political views?
Can you ever consider yourself to be in private in a virtual
world, or must you always act as if someone is watching?
Addiction
Virtual world designers are creating something that they know
is addictive. Addiction is a bad thing, because of its personal and
social costs. At a moral level, are designers of virtual worlds
little better than drug pushers?
The first person to question me on the ethics of making an
intensely addictive experience available to unsuspecting
members of the public was computer journalist Guy Kewney in
the mid-1980s. His point was that even if I didn’t know MUD1
would be addictive when I started on it, I knew now and should
therefore give some thought as to whether I should continue
running it. This I did, and I concluded that although players
might at times exhibit behaviors that could be considered
symptomatic of addiction, it wasn’t that simple. Virtual worlds
are places: You can’t be addicted to a virtual world any more
908 Chapter 8
than you can be addicted to Las Vegas. You can be addicted to
the things you do in a virtual world, as you can be addicted to
the things you do in Las Vegas. Unlike Las Vegas, however, in
MUD1 it wasn’t me who made the experience addictive, it was
the players themselves through their imaginations and
interactions.
No, it didn’t convince me then, either.
I certainly didn’t set out to make MUD1 addictive. I wanted it to
be a place where people could be and become themselves. It just
happened that for many people this turned out to be a very
intense experience that they wanted to repeat again and again.
The question I should have been asking was not whether
playing in virtual worlds was addictive (if “addictive” is the right
word, which in this context it almost certainly isn’t), but
whether this addictiveness was a bad thing given the potential
rewards. In this respect, I see it morally defensible on three
counts:
• People come out of the experience as better individuals than
they were when they went in.
• Most players would not develop as much if they did
something else instead of playing in the virtual world.
• The process has a definite end. When your hero’s journey
finishes, all signs of addiction/dependency/habit are gone.
Players of virtual worlds don’t all have periods of what could be
called addiction to the experience, but even those who do will on
the whole come out the better for it16
. Virtual worlds are a force
for good.
16 This assumes they are allowed to come out of it. Taking away someone’s
computer to stop them from playing in a virtual world could be worse for
them than letting them reach closure.
Coda: Ethical Considerations 909
The problem is, not all virtual worlds satisfy the preceding
criteria. Some, for example, use gambling-psychology feedback
systems to drive their addictiveness, rather than the sheer
freedom to be. The player is addicted but isn’t developing; they
play to feed their addiction, not to end it. It’s all the worse when
the virtual world is especially designed this way; accidental
incompetence is a lesser crime than deliberate incompetence.
As I mentioned in Chapters 5 and 6, most game-oriented virtual
worlds have a certain inherent amount of addiction-promoting
activity as a part of their gameplay; it helps their players have
fun. Plenty of regular computer games also have it, however
these don’t attract anywhere near the degree of dedication that
virtual worlds are able to rely on. It’s the player’s development
that is the critical “addiction;” that being the case, virtual worlds
that deliberately implement in tandem with this a variable
feedback system of rewards have something of an ethical case to
answer.
The other common violation is in closure. If players are on some
version of a hero’s journey and the virtual world designer,
knowing this, interferes with their progress, they will have to
play for longer to reach the end (if indeed they ever reach it at
all). The virtual world itself may never “end,” but individual
journeys must; the never-ending journey is an eternity of
frustration. Give people an out and they’ll come back; force
them to stay and they’ll go. Virtual worlds that move the
winning post as players approach it are dealing out an
unnecessary cruelty.
Mental Illness
This is more of a game management thing, but I thought I
should mention it here because it does impact on designers.
910 Chapter 8
Some players really are crazy. If you accept that the word
“crazy” can be applied to an individual, then statistically some
crazy people will play virtual worlds. A user base the size of
EverQuest’s will include several bona fide psychopaths. That’s
assuming that virtual worlds mirror the general population: It
could be, for example, that the nature of these worlds is such
that fewer crazy people play them. Alternatively, they could act
as magnets. I suspect the latter
I’m aware that the word “crazy” is emotive; I used it here to
make a point. Most of the people who suffer from various forms
of mental illness are not crazy by any definition of the word.
Some, however, are—dangerously so. What does your virtual
world say to them? Are you responsible if they take what it says
to heart?
The “crazy people” quandary is not unique to virtual worlds.
Film, television, and computer games all suffer from the same
problem. If you dramatize a killing spree, there is a possibility
that it could inspire a seriously disturbed person to go on an
actual killing spree. Where virtual worlds are unique is that they
blur the boundaries between fantasy and reality until the two
become one and the same. For someone who may have difficulty
separating reality from fantasy at the best of times, this could
prove too much. In such circumstances, can virtual world
designers still hide behind the “you can’t legislate for crazy
people” argument? If not, how could virtual worlds as an
industry ever be viable?
Most mentally ill people who play virtual worlds are not,
fortunately, crazy. They may have serious issues, and could even
be a danger to themselves17, but they will listen to reason.
17 Over the years, even MUD2 (which isn’t exactly large) has seen two suicides
and at least one attempted suicide among its player base.
Coda: Ethical Considerations 911
System administrators accept a duty of care for players while
they are in their virtual world, and if it is apparent that someone
is behaving worryingly oddly then it could be best for them to
be barred entry. Of course, this could well make the individual’s
problems worse, so it’s always wise to seek external advice first
if possible. I’ve only ever had to do this twice (once with MUD1,
once with MUD2), but for large-scale games it’s going to happen
more often.
Designers of small-scale virtual worlds who are panicking at
having just read this can probably calm down. I can’t comment
on the legal issues, but from an ethical point of view you’re on
solid ground as long as you act in good faith. If you see that
someone needs help, and you give what you (or any reasonable
person in your position would) believe to be help, then you can’t
be expected to do more. The alternative is to do nothing, which
may be the legally sensible position, but it’ll feel worse if
something awful does happen.
There is ample anecdotal evidence that virtual worlds can help
with certain kinds of psychological problems. Sometimes, they
merely make life easier—an agoraphobic may not be cured of
their fear by playing a virtual world, but at least they “get out” a
little. It’s the same as with many physical disorders: You can
play a virtual world with both legs in plaster. More
interestingly, though, are situations where people use virtual
worlds to work through personality problems and come out
“cured.” I know of no formal medical studies of this
phenomenon, but I’m convinced it happens. Whether designers
can claim any responsibility for effecting such changes is
another matter, of course; I suspect it’s more to do with the
fundamental nature of virtual worlds, rather than anything
value-added by designers. That said, it’s perfectly feasible for
designers to remove this therapeutic value by interfering with
the way players progress; it’s obvious, for example, that any self-
912 Chapter 8
realization that comes from completing a hero’s journey is not
going to happen if the designer never lets anyone finish.
Tempting though it is to feel all warm inside about how virtual
worlds can help people with mental illness, there is another side
to the coin. If we accept that virtual worlds can have tangible
positive effects on the minds of players, then shouldn’t we also
accept that they can have tangible negative effects, too? Could
they make someone’s condition worse? Or could they give
someone a problem who wouldn’t have had it otherwise?
The answer to the first question is yes; we saw this in the
Chapter 6 discussion concerning psychology and virtual worlds.
People can relive the same issues the same way time and time
again, hardening their views rather than changing them. In
most cases this is unfortunate, and it means they’re not going to
get anything out of the virtual world; for the mentally ill, it
could be beyond unfortunate and make their situation worse. If
this happens, then it’s time for the player to seek professional
help. Normally it would be the player’s friends who raised the
alarm, but it could be the live team who has to deal with making
the real-life phone calls to find out what the best response is.
On the whole, I believe that many more people benefit from
playing virtual worlds than suffer, but then I’m a virtual world
designer so it’s not like I’m going to say otherwise.
The second question—whether virtual worlds can cause mental
problems—is very disquieting. It is almost certain that the
intense experiences that virtual worlds are capable of delivering
will push some people over the edge. They may develop anxiety
attacks, delusions, fears of persecution—pretty well anything.
The virtual world acts as a trigger. The crucial point is whether
this is something that would probably have happened anyway,
or whether it was induced by the virtual world?
Coda: Ethical Considerations 913
The standard defense, used in many industries, is that some
people are predisposed to this kind of thing and you can’t blame
the author, composer, artist, director, or news editor whose
work tipped the balance. Virtual world designers could argue
this too. However, it’s not quite that simple. Virtual worlds have
a strong psychological element to their design. Could it be that
with their huge capacity to promote introspection they might
cause some people to become neurotic or worse when no other
everyday experience would? I’m not suggesting that designers
would attempt such a thing deliberately, but that’s not to say it
couldn’t happen by accident.
If it did, this would be cause for concern. There would be a
danger to playing virtual worlds that was not associated with
any other leisure-time activity.
It’s impossible to gauge the possible extent of the problem
without a formal study. However, given that anecdotally it’s
difficult to say whether it happens at all, the incidence is likely
to be low. It’s also quite likely that obsessive behavior will be
picked up by friends or the live team before things come to a
head, and that any potential catastrophe can therefore be
averted. Designers of small-scale worlds where everyone knows
everyone else can therefore probably rest easy. Designers of
large-scale worlds can also probably do so if the mechanisms
are in place for detection and prevention.
Virtual worlds with mental healthcare schemes? It could
happen.
Religion
As I mentioned in Chapter 6, I’m an atheist. All religion looks
like an aspect of anthropology to me. I see where religions come
from, I see why they succeed and fail, I see why people follow
them, and I see how they propagate. I also see why my making
914 Chapter 8
any observations about religions is likely to be highly
contentious no matter how impartial I aim to be, therefore I
shall keep this short.
The necessity of my having to make the preceding disclaimer in
this book transfers directly to virtual worlds. If you want to
know what the phrase “treading on eggshells” means, this is a
great way to learn. In real life, it’s almost impossible to mention
religion without offending someone; the same is true of religion
in virtual worlds. Yet for many people, their religion is the
absolute focus of their life. So what does the designer do?
There are basically four options:
• Discreetly ignore religion. Simply never mention
anything about it.
• Make up a religion (or use a dead one). Here, the virtual
world conveys the sense that religion or spirituality is
important, but it doesn’t use anything that anyone
actually believes.
• Include references to real-world religions, but only
passively. You might have a cathedral, but it has no
tangible effects in the virtual world beyond its physical
properties.
• Embrace one or more real-world religions. This can be
explicit (rituals and ceremonies that have tangible
effects) or implicit (the virtual world conveys a system of
values and beliefs without directly referencing the
source). When implicit, it can be combined with one of
the other options mentioned previously.
Discreetly ignoring religion is the safest approach, especially if
it makes sense in the context. This is the way most movies do it:
If a character in a screenplay is a priest, he’s a priest for a
reason. Science Fiction virtual worlds work this way.
Coda: Ethical Considerations 915
When the genre demands a religion, the usual solution is to
make up one18. Fantasy religions in Fantasy worlds are generally
accepted; those who don’t accept them usually don’t accept the
basic Fantasy premise either. Interestingly, the “need” for
religion in Fantasy worlds stems mainly from the assumption
that cleric-class characters must obtain their healing-type spells
as gifts of their deity. Although this is a common fiction, it’s not
one that is a necessity; despite its religion-influenced creation
myths there are no priestly types in Lord of the Rings, for
example (and few wizards).
The third option is to put in real-world religious paraphernalia,
but not imbue it with any special functionality. Players may
choose to conduct weddings in temples or churches or
wherever, but to the virtual world engine none of this has any
significance. The designer treats a religious building like
anything else—a castle, a cave, a boatyard—and religious
objects as no different from other expensive or coveted items.
This is the safest approach for an historical genre where
religion plays a part without being the central theme19. For
example, clergymen and churches have a place in Wild West
mythology, but they are stylized to the extent that they can be
used sensibly without offense. In later settings this also can
work, although you’d probably need a reason to use it rather
than simply ignore religion altogether20
.
18 This also applies when you want to lampoon or otherwise say something
about a religion, although it’s still something of a risky undertaking.
19 But beware of gaffes such as this message that I saw in Civilization III: Play
The World: “We have information that the Arab city of Mecca has completed a
great project, JS Bach’s Cathedral.”
20 This is what I do in MUD2, my reason being essentially artistic. For an
excellent (although misinformed in places) critique of this approach, see:
Lexley Vaughan, Playing Religiously. Muddled Times, February 2003.
http://www.muddled-times.com/article.fod?IssueId=19&ArticleId=1382.
916 Chapter 8
Finally, designers will often work threads of their own
philosophy into a virtual world, and this could include their
religious beliefs. A deliberately allegorical work would be more
difficult to construct, but it’s by no means impossible. Overtly
religious virtual worlds that give tangible virtual world effects
to implementations of real-world religious practices are making
themselves targets for all kinds of troublemakers, whether from
their own faith or some other.
Even seemingly innocuous things can be hurtful: Making Santa
Claus appear every Christmas and give out presents is “only a
bit of fun,” but to a non-Christian it could appear evangelical.
Not having Christmas in the virtual world when it’s in full
swing in the real world is also saying something, though. Should
characters have a “religion” flag that turns on the effects of a
religion? Or is it then unfair when Christian characters are
given presents (that is, tangible advantages) by Santa Claus but
no one else is?
The religious sensibilities of players can cause design issues
elsewhere. Earlier, I mentioned that I put ham into MUD2 to
challenge vegetarians to look at their beliefs, but it also
challenges Jews and Moslems too. Even if it were some other
foodstuff, that could still give Moslems a problem during
Ramadan. If your virtual self eats virtual food in a virtual world
during daylight hours, are you breaking your fast or not? Is it
the principle or the actuality that matters? What if the virtual
world had its own clock or calendar that was out of step with
the real one? Would that make a difference?
Virtual worlds can depict or allow activities that are legal in the
real world but that are disapproved of by established religions.
Homosexuality, alcohol use, usury, and non-pacifism are all
frowned on by one religion or another. Some religions look on
the depiction of their symbols, buildings, or teachers as
blasphemy, whereas for others it’s good publicity. Some think
Coda: Ethical Considerations 917
that showing “evils” such as black magic or devilry is
corrupting, but others think it’s a case of “know thine enemy.”
Of particular difficulty is when there is a schism within a
religion. Virtual worlds are very good at giving male and female
characters equal opportunities, but some creeds are divided
over whether such equality transfers to them. Some versions of
Christianity allow female priests, but others don’t. Not only does
the designer have to choose which religion to depict, but which
sect of that religion.
Another problem with using real-life religions is omission. A
cyberpunk world might have references to fundamentalist
Christian churches, high-tech Buddhist and Hindu temples, but
have nothing about Islam at all. This definitely insults either
Islam or the other religions mentioned, but it’s not obvious
which!
Then there are the non-standard religions. Some years ago I
wrote a series of children’s stories that I put on my web site.
One of those stories concerned vampires21. People would look up
vampires in search engines and, finding 18 references in my
story, would read it. They would then send me emails criticizing
me for mocking their religion and publishing blasphemous
untruths; about half would include dark threats about what they
were going to do to me22. I now have a link on the page
explaining the context, which has cut the number of complaints
to practically zero; these people may have unconventional
views, but that doesn’t mean they’re stupid. The point is that
they had beliefs every bit as strong as those held by adherents of
conformist religions. A designer hoping to avoid confrontation
21 http://www.mud.co.ul/richard/sbos10.htm
22 The “I will sup your blood” ones were the best.
918 Chapter 8
with zealots can reduce the possibility of its happening, but
can’t eliminate it.
There are really two sets of morals involved here. The first is the
system of morality that comes with a religion; there is a
practical aspect to this, in that if your virtual world promotes a
morality that runs counter to a particular religion’s views, you
shouldn’t expect to get many players from that congregation. If
you go really overboard, there could be real-world protests or
worse.
The second set of morals involved is your own. I’ve assumed
throughout this chapter that you will do what you think is
“right,” of course, but religion raises the tricky point of how to
treat views you think are “wrong” (but that other people think
are “right”). I used to know someone who refused to believe
Gödel’s Incompleteness Theorem; he accepted the proof, just
not the theorem. Whatever your own system of morality,
someone else’s could well seem as absurd as that. If a player
asked you to remove references to Gödel’s Incompleteness
Theorem because it was wrong, would you do it? What if they
asked you to remove references to Easter? Or Ramadan? Or the
Festival of Lights?
Real-life laws make some boundaries clear, but the others you
must set yourself.
Groups of Players as Groups of
People
If someone makes a statement with which you disagree, you
might want to take issue with them. There are social norms that
dictate how far you can go with your riposte— verbal abuse
Coda: Ethical Considerations 919
warrants in the first instance only a verbal defense, for example.
Although this can get out of hand, on the whole it works. If an
individual says something, then other people can challenge
them about it.
What if it’s not the individual who makes the statement but an
organization of which the individual is a member? If a political
party issues a general pronouncement, then that announcement
is on behalf of the party’s members. If you disagreed, you could
reasonably expect to bring it up with any members of that party
you knew, to take them to task. Sure, they might not agree
either, but what to do about it then becomes their problem.
It gets fuzzier for groups that people are members of nonvoluntarily. If two countries are at war, should they round up
each other’s nationals and intern them? It happened in the
1940s. The innocent suffer, but the argument is that far fewer
innocents suffer overall than would if enemy agents were free to
wage a campaign of sabotage behind the lines.
Terrorism is another area where this logic can be applied. If you
know that all terrorists are members of a particular religious
group, can you intern members of that group that haven’t
committed any crime but that are acting like they might were
they given the chance? Membership of a religion is voluntary—
plenty of people convert to other religions—so why not? This
happened in Northern Ireland in the 1970s.
I’m sure you can see the slippery slope here. By taking a series of
seemingly short but justifiable steps, pretty soon you reach the
stage where individuals are frightened to get on a bus because
of the color of their skin or the way they dress. In virtual worlds,
the effects of stereotyping are not quite so worrying, but
nevertheless there are a number of areas where people accept
the status quo without perhaps considering what that means.
920 Chapter 8
Icons
Many virtual worlds draw on iconic or mythical images to
sustain their immersive depth. If a player comes across a “little
old man” NPC, it’s a source of great disappointment if it turns
out he really is just a little old man and isn’t veiling some
immense power or wisdom. If they came across a unicorn, they
would feel cheated if it wasn’t white (and if they came across a
herd of them—say what?!). Although these iconic figures are
stereotypical, therein lies their strength; they represent an
idealized “knowledge” of a reality that when correctly applied to
a virtual world can deliver immersion. So tokenized have these
metaphors become that it can forcefully be argued they aren’t
stereotypes at all, they’re shorthand for a parcel of meanings.
The same argument can be used to explain why so many
Fantasy virtual worlds have elves and dwarfs (or rebrandings of
the same) as character races. Dwarfs are solid, materialist, quick
to anger but dependable; elves are spiritual, aloof, beautiful, yet
insular. Players immediately have identifiable stereotypes that
they can use to help decide what kind of character they wish to
play. Real-life dwarfs might complain about this depiction, but
“no, these are dwarves not dwarfs.” Real-life elves rarely
comment.
An ethical point that seems to have been missed by most of the
designers who employ character races23 is that it promotes the
notion that races are tangibly different. If it’s fine to regard all
elves as being arrogant, fair-haired aesthetes, that validates the
idea of stereotypical races. Why couldn’t a dwarf be a dreamer, a
poet, a fun-loving bard? Why couldn’t an elf be a greedy, bad23 Actually—and this is the root of the problem—sub-species that the
designers call “races.”
Coda: Ethical Considerations 921
tempered, never-satisfied lover of ale? Because they’re “not like
that”? Or maybe “a few are like that, but most aren’t’? So what
are “all Japanese” or “all Jewish” or “all Mexican” people like?
Having races as stereotypes in virtual worlds endorses having
races as stereotypes in the real world. It’s up to designers
themselves to decide whether or not this is fine by them, but
they should at least make that decision consciously. At the
moment, most of them simply follow the flow without thinking
about it. They should.
As I mentioned in Chapter 6, most virtual worlds are fine with
giving tangible properties to Fantasy races, but they avoid
doing this for real races. Players may decide at charactercreation time or through their personal descriptive text to
reflect a real-life race other than the default (there’s always a
default), but it’s purely cosmetic. There is an argument that this
homogenizes characters, making them all basically the same;
this is indeed the case, but that’s unsurprising given that it’s the
goal. Sure, ethnic groups that have a culture tied to their
physical appearance won’t thrive in a world where anyone can
steal that appearance, but then you have to ask the question as
to whether this might not be a good thing. Racial supremacists
have lost the war when people can be whatever race they choose
to be.
There is a separate issue related to people for whom their race is
a fundamental part of their identity. In virtual worlds without
their race, or even with their race but with Fantasy ones
alongside it, this could prompt a serious crisis. Should designers
try to accommodate such individuals? Or is it simply a fact of
life that race doesn’t transfer to virtual worlds (even though
attitudes to race can)?
Other stereotypes exist in virtual worlds, of course, which are
less emotive but nevertheless raise similar issues. Character
922 Chapter 8
classes, for example, impose conformity. If you’re a designer
who believes in conformity, have character classes; if you’re one
who doesn’t, don’t. If you haven’t given the issue the slightest
thought, you’d better do some thinking—you may be promoting
social values with which you disagree.
Finally, a word on anthropomorphic animal characters.
As I mentioned in Chapter 6, anthropomorphic characters are
all to do with symbols. Different animal species have different
characteristics that (because animals aren’t as free-thinking as
humans) they follow strongly. Yes, some can have personalities
that are different from those of others, but they’re ruled by their
instincts far more than are humans. Because of this, people have
come to associate certain behaviors with certain animals—the
cunning fox, the timid rabbit, the inquisitive mouse—and they
use the animals as symbols for the behaviors. In some cases, the
link is only metaphorical: A man who prowls around looking for
innocent women to prey on might be likened to a wolf that
prowls around looking for innocent smaller creatures to prey
on, but there’s nothing sexual about the wolf’s activity.
Nevertheless, the image of the wolf as a predator is strong
enough that if you referred to a man as acting like a wolf people
wouldn’t think you meant he attacked sheep.
For some designers, this degree of stereotyping could also be
too much. If it’s okay to stereotype animals, pretty soon it’s okay
to stereotype humans, and then where are we? For others, it’s
merely an example of the general way that languages work
using metaphor, and the moment foxes and rabbits complain is
the moment their plight deserves to be taken seriously. You can
make up your own mind.
Virtual worlds where players take on the role of
anthropomorphic characters implicitly accept that this
stereotyping is fine; furthermore, they have a well-developed
Coda: Ethical Considerations 923
system of codes that associate different animal forms with
different kinds of behavior. This leads to a system of selffulfilling stereotypes: If people think that bears betoken having
a macho exterior but a sensitive caring inside, then people who
want that image will play as bears. People who want to play as a
shy character will not choose to be a bear, even though in a
virtual world where all the animals are anthropomorphic
anyway there’s nothing to stop someone from being a shy bear.
What about non-anthropomorphic animal worlds? What if your
character is, say, a dog? If it looks like a dog and can only do
things that dogs can do, is that okay? Well if people want to be a
dog, then presumably it’s up to them, but there are some
awkward problems about identity drift here. It could be
psychologically damaging for someone who didn’t know exactly
what they were doing to play for extended periods in virtual
worlds in the role of a dog or any other non-sentient creature.
Playing a character of a gender, race or age not your own is
different because they can all think just as well as each other;
playing as a dog, though? You can change, but can the dog?
Although this may seem rather a far-fetched idea, there are
already virtual worlds moving toward it24. Knowing what you
know about immersion, would it be ethical or unethical to go
the whole way?
Changing yourself is easier than changing a stereotype. You
decide on you; everyone else decides on a stereotype.
Social Engineering
Are virtual worlds a force for good or for evil?
24 Example: The Jungle. telnet://thejungle.dhs.org:4000.
924 Chapter 8
As I have already said, I strongly believe in the former. However,
mere faith in my own (clearly biased) judgment is hardly
justification. Computer games (along with television, film, and
music) are routinely implicated when some disturbed teenager
gets hold of a weapon and goes on a killing spree; virtual worlds
are also starting to suffer from their perceived negative
effects25. Do virtual worlds incite, reinforce, or train?
I won’t make the case for virtual worlds here, because I hope to
have done that already in this book. However, I will examine
some of the case against. Without any formal studies to call on,
all I can do is provide anecdotal evidence; nevertheless, it’s
evidence based on years of observation, and therefore not quite
as speculative as it may seem.
My argument that virtual worlds are a force for good is based
largely on the fact that players can learn to be better people as a
result of playing them. That means I intrinsically accept that
virtual worlds can bring about change. Given this, why must
that change necessarily be for the good?
Well, it isn’t always, of course; in a well-designed virtual world it
will be most of the time, but some people will indeed replay old
issues repeatedly, consolidating points of view that would be
better disbanded. The reverse is also true: Some individuals in
real life become better people after committing horrific acts
that leave others traumatized, but on the whole anyone taking
up this kind of activity is on the road to personal destruction.
So, why is it that individuals take “good” things from virtual
worlds, rather than “bad” things? I believe that it is due to the
similarities between virtual worlds and the real one. The
25 EverQuest has been blamed for at least one suicide, and Lineage is
habitually held responsible for a wide range of crimes.
Coda: Ethical Considerations 925
majority of people who learn anything at all from virtual worlds
will pick up things such as:
• Information specific to the virtual world (stats, goals,
geography)
• Skills specific to the interface (dodging, aiming, feature
recognition)
• Skills specific to the virtual world (tactics, strategy)
• More general skills (social, behavioral, educational)
• Wider cultural values (as exhibited by the other players)
• The difference between the real and the virtual
These are all either innocuous or of benefit to the individual
player (the further down the list, the more likely it is to be of
use26).
People who play virtual worlds will not pick up things such as
these:
• Desensitization (to evil, to other people’s emotions)
• The belief that people are just like NPCs, and rules that
apply to NPCs apply to people
• The idea that everything virtual transfers to the real
If any of these were true, that would indeed be worrying. In
general, though, I don’t think they are. Let’s take a closer look….
The desensitization argument is that people come across
something in the virtual world so often that they become used
26 Educational virtual worlds can put in facts they want players to learn, but
they’ll have to make sure that players know these are true in the real world,
otherwise they will not assume it. There are occasional interface skills that
are useful too: Many people have learned to type by playing textual worlds,
for example.
926 Chapter 8
to it, so when the same issue arises in the real world they do not
respond appropriately. This is a valid point about virtual worlds
(as it is about things like TV news, too); where it becomes
invalid, however, is in the suggestion that impressionable
players will be unable to distinguish between virtual-world
concepts and the real-world concepts that they’re based on.
Take “evil,” for example. The notion that most players of the big
commercial virtual worlds have about evil actually translates as
“cool.” In practice, the people on the “evil” side exhibit the same
kind of behavior that they would were they on the “good” side,
except they think they’re cooler because they have all the nastysounding spells and skills.
What evil really means is rule by fear. You do what your boss
tells you to do because if you didn’t you would be tortured,
maimed, and (if you were lucky) killed as an example to others
who might think of stepping out of line. An evil person is as
likely to kill someone on their own side as they are the “enemy.”
In real life, people fight for evil because:
• They’re evil.
• They think they’re evil.
• They’re afraid of what will happen to them or to people they
care for if they don’t fight.
• They have no way of escaping.
• They don’t realize they’re fighting for evil.
• They’re threatened by what they perceive as an even greater
evil.
Now translate this into a Fantasy world. Let’s give evil
commanding officers the power to take 10% of a player’s levels
off them for “torture.” Who would fight on their side?
Well evil people would, because they get the same powers over
their subordinates and they agree with the overall aims of the
Coda: Ethical Considerations 927
evil empire. Non-evil people would scream like crazy at
customer service the moment such a sanction was imposed on
them. Those who felt particularly annoyed would quit and join
the good side. If a greater evil was on the way, they’d quit and
play another game.
In short, “evil” as a concept doesn’t work as a major force in
virtual worlds. What we have instead is some kind of sanitized
version that gives people a cloak to hide behind if they want to
do something they think is a little naughty. It’s no more evil
than the “good” side is good (when self-sacrifice is cheap, even
evil people will do it).
“Evil” in virtual worlds is just an artificial construct that
misapplies labels to promote a meaningless conflict. Is it
without consequences, though? If players come to see “evil” as
just a label, does that indeed desensitize them to the very
concept of it? Will they be more likely to side with something
labeled as evil in the real world?
At a very superficial level—that of the label—perhaps. If they
are told that some dictator is “evil,” some individuals may not
fully appreciate what this means; this could be true irrespective
of whether they have played virtual worlds or not, though.
Whatever, contact with the reality of evil will swiftly disabuse
them of this naivety.
Nevertheless, the wicked will always prey on the gullible; if
desensitizing people to the label means that those to whom it
applies can draw innocents closer to them, it can’t be a good
thing. Whether it’s unacceptably bad or merely one poor chord
in the great song of popular culture is another matter27
.
27 The word “wicked” has already acquired dual meaning in popular culture,
at least temporarily. At the moment, people can refer to a new dance,
928 Chapter 8
Besides, the traffic is not one-way: Real-world ideas can affect
virtual world concepts. In the great scheme of things,
permanent death for characters is not actually as bad as people
make out. However, because death in the real world is bad, this
has caused people to redefine what “death” means in virtual
worlds. They say their character “died” even when all that
happened was it was teleported out of a battle. Are they
becoming less sensitized to the notion of death in the real world
because of this? Or does their use of “death” in this way arise
precisely because they aren’t insensitive to it?
The remaining two primary concerns about the way that virtual
worlds can be a negative influence are related to each other.
They say that people who spend long periods in virtual worlds
will transfer inappropriate emotional and intellectual
understandings to the real world because they cannot
subconsciously separate the real from the virtual. If you spend
all day beating the guts out of NPCs, and NPCs look just like
people, then in the real world you’ll start to objectify people too.
Similarly, if you find that being lying and deceitful in the virtual
world works, you’ll change in the real world so that you adopt
this strategy too.
The objectification argument is a non-starter. People are acutely
aware of whether opponents are computer-controlled or playercontrolled. It makes a big difference to them28. If anything, they
are more likely to subjectify NPCs than to objectify players.
magazine, candy bar, or whatever as “wicked” and understand it’s not the
same kind of “wicked” as a “wicked witch.” Whether that will always be the
case remains to be seen.
28 Advanced AI systems may be able to present as real players and remain
undetected. This brings in major philosophical issues concerning sentience,
though. Basically, if players can’t tell an AI from another player using free-
Coda: Ethical Considerations 929
Virtual-to-real transfer does occur. The core of the attack
against it is that it happens without critical reflection; in other
words, it becomes part of your behavior through rote, rather
than because you thought about it. Although I agree that it is
possible to learn information and simple skills this way, I do not
believe that behavioral changes can also be acquired except
under very artificial circumstances. If you find that being lying
and deceitful works, you’ll notice it consciously; you won’t just
fall into it with zombie-like mindlessness. This is why, when
other players start shunning you because of your behavior
change, you may explicitly consider what it is you are doing
wrong (that is, lying) and resolve your ways.
The way I see this is like the difference between episodic and
semantic memory. Episodic memory is your memory of events
(“yesterday I watched a movie”); semantic memory is your
memory of procedures and processes (“when you watch a
movie, you have to buy a ticket”). People who suffer from
amnesia will forget their name, let alone what movies they have
seen, but they’ll still remember that they have to buy a ticket.
Semantic memory is an abstraction of episodic memory29; from
individual events, you build up a general picture that describes
them, such that you can forget the individual events but retain
what you have learned. I don’t remember how I found out I
needed to buy a ticket to see a movie, but then I don’t need to; I
only need to remember that I do need to buy a ticket.
form communication, then the AI is another player—it just happens to run
on different hardware to human players.
29 It’s wider than I’ve made out here. You can regard episodic memory as
handling facts and episodic memory as handling knowledge. Acquired skills
(such as the ability to drive a car) can be considered as compiled actions, and
therefore are contenders for being part of semantic memory; it’s usually
more appropriate to look on them as forming a separate memory of their
own, however, which may or may not be part of semantic memory.
930 Chapter 8
With virtual worlds, the actions that you undertake lead to
individual episodes. Although you remember the episodes
immediately when they’re over, with time they will fade. Yes,
some will be particularly memorable and will remain with you
always, but most won’t. What does remain are the lessons you
learned from the episodes, and these are quite different from the
mere facts of the episodes themselves.
As a designer, I therefore don’t care whether people get a rush
from finding a secret passage, from being a leader, from
designing their own house, or from laying waste to a nest of
vampires. What I care about is whether, in doing so, they
develop as people. So, when someone says that virtual worlds
encourage sex or violence, no, they don’t. Even if a designer
went all out to try to encourage it, they wouldn’t. It may be that
they encourage play of a sexual or violent nature, but play is
play, and it’s virtual. The lessons that people learn are the
lessons that they can take with them into the real world. They
find out about people; they find out about themselves.
I believe that designing virtual worlds is a morally defensible
occupation. I believe that they are on the side of the virtuous.
Mind you, I also believe that one day we’ll see more people
getting married because of virtual worlds than we’ll see getting
divorced because of them. Don’t let my idealism do your
thinking for you. Consider the issues; reflect on them yourself;
draw your own conclusions.
Confounding Expectations
There’s a gray area to this talk of what people learn from virtual
worlds.
Coda: Ethical Considerations 931
Immersion is driven by a virtual world’s similarity to Reality. It
is founded on players’ implicit expectations. Some of those
expectations concern virtual worlds themselves. Should these
expectations be confirmed or frustrated? Do you, as a designer,
give the players what they expect (for example, races) or what
they don’t (for example, everyone’s human)? The issue is not the
effect on immersion (it’s not all that great); rather, it’s the
effects that confounding these expectations has on individuals.
If you give someone something that they are not expecting, but
which is consistent with the way the virtual world operates,
then they will either accept it or reject it. Either way, they’ll
have to think about it; this is why challenging expectations is
good. Obviously, if too many are challenged at the same time it
could impact on immersion, but in general this isn’t going to
happen.
Challenging expectations causes people to think about those
expectations. Through such analyses, players can change as
people. As I have explained, this is how things should be; the
lessons that people learn come from abstractions of events, not
from the events themselves. You don’t learn that killing is good,
you learn how to trust your friends; you don’t learn that Zeus is
all-powerful, you learn that being all-powerful means being allresponsible. This is how it should be.
Yet immersion subverts this mechanism. You accept the virtual
world because of its similarity to the real one. Your implicit
view of how the real world works informs your view of how the
virtual world should work. Is it not possible that the reverse
could at times be true? What you implicitly accept without
thinking in the virtual world could transfer to what you
implicitly accept in the real world? As I said earlier, obviously
anything complicated would require conscious thought—I’m
not suggesting that players are likely to be brainwashed like
932 Chapter 8
this—but nevertheless there are smaller things that could have
real-world consequences.
Example: In a virtual world, acceleration is instantaneous. You
go from a standing start to running full speed without an
intermediate period of speeding up. If someone who has been
playing in a graphical virtual world for 10 hours gets into their
car and drives off, could that be dangerous? This kind of lowlevel skill acquisition is easy to pick up— people who access
text-based virtual worlds from a command-line interface will
routinely find themselves typing the short forms of “look” or
“inventory” at the command prompt.
When designers challenge player expectations at this kind of
level (rather than at a more cerebral level), the players have to
accept it or reject it. Rejection means stopping playing, so
challenges aren’t ever going to be major; they do exist, though.
For example, in a graphical world if you want to walk between
characters who are physically blocking your way, the world may
let you do it—even though in the real world you couldn’t. The
reason this is so is because otherwise players could barricade an
area with their own bodies; nevertheless, it challenges players’
notions of their own physicality in the virtual world. If they
don’t like it, they’re not going to become immersed and will
eventually leave; if they do like it, it becomes part of their
implicit knowledge of the way the virtual world works. With
deepening immersion, there is the risk that this world view
could be taken back to Reality. It may not last there for long, but
it could still be enough to cause an accident.
Whose fault is it when such lapses occur? The player, for
putting themselves into such a situation in the first place, or the
designer for challenging their expectations?
Above the level of immersion, there is still cause for concern.
Designers can cause players to re-examine their attitudes, but
Coda: Ethical Considerations 933
what happens if the players conclude that they should behave in
a way that is bad either for themselves or for society? I argued
earlier that players don’t learn from the facts of what they do
but from abstractions of those facts, but what if what they learn
is inappropriate for their real-world culture?
For example, a virtual world may have lax attitudes to sexuality.
A player may, after many experimental encounters of virtual
sex, decide that they are not attracted to members of the same
sex and are therefore heterosexual. This is fair enough, but if as
a result of their not enjoying their homosexual encounters they
drew all kinds of false conclusions about homosexuals in
general, this would not necessarily be regarded as a universally
positive view to transfer into the real world. Is the virtual
world’s designer in any way responsible for this unfortunate
result? After all, if they had not promoted lax attitudes to
sexuality, the player would not have experimented and would
therefore not have drawn any conclusions at all (false or
otherwise).
Here’s another example. Virtual world designers create an
environment in which people can explore their own identity.
They can find out who they “really are.” It could transpire that
they “really are” someone deeply unpleasant, who has previously
been subduing their urges behind some façade that they now
feel comfortable about dropping. Are virtual worlds best left
alone if they regularly produce individuals like this?
Designers can influence the ways in which people change in
virtual worlds. When they do so, does this give them a
responsibility for the outcome? Or are they merely providing
trials that will allow players to find what was already there deep
inside them anyway? If I challenge a player’s expectations, am I
equipping them with the means by which to determine their
own solution? Or am I guiding them in a direction that may be
inappropriate.
934 Chapter 8
I’d like to believe the former. I can lead a horse to water, but I
can’t make it drink. Yet I can make it consider drinking. Is it my
responsibility if it does drink? Or is it the horse’s?
Yourself
When all’s said and done, the ethics of a virtual world reflect
those of its designer. If you don’t think about how to behave,
about what’s right and wrong, about responsibility, about
rights, then why should your players? If you think ethics are
other people’s responsibility, so will your players. Your beliefs,
your attitudes, your personality— they’re all reflected in your
virtual world. You have to take responsibility, because (at least
initially) you are the world.
Here’s a final ethical problem for you.
Back in Chapter 3, I outlined A Story About a Tree. This
concerned the death in real life of Karyn, a Norwegian beauty
queen who played in LegendMUD. I used this anecdote to pose
questions concerning what is “real” in a virtual world. At the
time, I said I didn’t know whether Karyn was a real person.
Actually, I do know whether or not Karyn was a real person: She
wasn’t. She was a complete invention.
In February 2002, film producer Tracy Spaight got in touch with
me about a documentary he was making, Real People, Virtual
Worlds. He wanted to know if it would be possible to interview
me, and sent along a preview tape of some interviews he’d done
already. The centerpiece was a powerful monologue by Raph
Koster in which he described and commented on A Story About a
Tree. Although I had long harbored reservations about Karyn, I’d
kept them pretty much to myself. When it came to a movie that
Coda: Ethical Considerations 935
was likely to be seen on television by millions of people, though,
well, it would have been somewhat embarrassing for Tracy and
Raph if Karyn turned out to be fake. I suggested to Tracy that he
check out the story, just to be sure. Someone at LegendMUD
would probably have met or spoken to Karyn in real life when
she was alive, so it shouldn’t take long; it was just to put my
mind at rest. Except, no one at LegendMUD had actually met
her.
I hadn’t reckoned with Tracy’s documentary-maker’s instincts.
He methodically investigated every shred of evidence that
remained concerning Karyn’s life. It took a great deal of time
and patience, but the facts he unearthed were undeniable. Here
are some of the highlights:
• There are only three people in the whole of Norway called
Karyn. It’s a highly unusual name there.
• The total number of deaths in road traffic accidents in
Norway in 1995 was 352. Road death is relatively uncommon
in that country.
• Only one person died in the crash that supposedly killed
Karyn. The report reproduced on Karyn’s web site said three
people; it had been altered in translation.
• The University of Oslo, which Karyn said she attended, had
no records of a former beauty queen (or anyone else) having
died in a road accident in January 1998.
• The Frøken Norge (Miss Norway) beauty pageant had no
entries named Karyn in 1995 (when Karyn was supposedly a
finalist).
• Karyn’s picture on her web site was of a bona fide Frøken
Norge contestant. She had never heard of LegendMUD until
Tracy tracked her down.
There was more—lots more. Police accident reports,
depositions from Geocities, newspaper archives, and so on.
936 Chapter 8
So Tracy and I knew that Karyn didn’t exist, and could prove so
categorically. We sensed that the news would elevate Tracy’s
documentary to mainstream levels of interest. Real people can
have real relationships with imaginary people? That’s a great
hook! I could imagine reading a syndicated version of the story
in UK Sunday newspapers a few years down the line, as
happened with Julian Dibbell’s A Rape in Cyberspace.
But just a moment…
Real relationships? Involving real people, who have suffered real
grief? Couldn’t it be potentially devastating for them to discover
the depths of Karyn’s betrayal. It might not be right for us to go
public with the story. The world might be a better place if we
just sat on it.
That wasn’t all we had to consider. A Story About a Tree is very
well known; it’s almost iconic. It has been cited many times as a
counter to the argument that “it’s just a game.” Yet for Karyn, it
was “just a game,” at least at some level. Would it be better for
the long-term development of virtual worlds for A Story About a
Tree to keep its integrity? Or could more useful lessons be
learned from a reappraisal of it in this new light?
So we had a problem: What should we do?
I won’t tell you what we did do, although obviously it resulted in
our revealing the truth about Karyn (or you wouldn’t be reading
this30). All I’ll say is that both Tracy and I felt our actions were
right.
30 1.Nor Tracy’s account: Tracy Spaight, Who Killed Miss Norway?. Salon, 14
April 2003.
http://www.salon.com/tech/feature/2003/04/14/who_killed_miss_norway/in
dex.html .
Coda: Ethical Considerations 937
Instead, I’d like to pose the question: What would you have done
in our position?
Now, ask what your answer says about you. What does that say
about your virtual world? What in turn does this say about your
players?
It’s your design; it’s your morality. From Essex to ethics in one
book….